       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 1 of 13



                               United States District Court
                              Southern District of New York


Virginia L. Giuffre,

               Plaintiff,                      Case No.: 15-cv-07433-RWS

v.

Ghislaine Maxwell,

            Defendant.
________________________________/

                PLAINTIFF’S FIRST REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
                DOCUMENTS TO DEFENDANT GHISLAINE MAXWELL

       Plaintiff, by and through her undersigned counsel, hereby propounds Plaintiff’s First

Request for Production of Documents pursuant to Rules 26 and 34 of the Federal Rules of Civil

Procedure to the Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell. The responses are due at the offices of Boies,

Schiller & Flexner LLP, 401 East Las Olas Boulevard, Suite 1200, Fort Lauderdale, Florida

33301, within thirty (30) days of service hereof.

                                          DEFINITIONS

       Wherever they hereafter appear the following words and phrases have the following

meanings:

       1.      “Agent” shall mean any agent, employee, officer, director, attorney, independent

contractor or any other person acting, or purporting to act, at the discretion of or on behalf of

another.

       2.      “Correspondence” or “communication” shall mean all written or verbal

communications, by any and all methods, including without limitation, letters, memoranda,

and/or electronic mail, by which information, in whatever form, is stored, transmitted or


                                                    1
                                                                                               bñÜáÄáí=^=
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 2 of 13



received; and, includes every manner or means of disclosure, transfer or exchange, and every

disclosure, transfer or exchange of information whether orally or by document or otherwise,

face-to-face, by telephone, telecopies, e-mail, text, modem transmission, computer generated

message, mail, personal delivery or otherwise.

       3.      “Defendant” shall mean the defendant Ghislaine Maxwell and her employees,

representatives or agents.

       4.      “Document” shall mean all written and graphic matter, however produced or

reproduced, and each and every thing from which information can be processed, transcribed,

transmitted, restored, recorded, or memorialized in any way, by any means, regardless of

technology or form. It includes, without limitation, correspondence, memoranda, notes,

notations, diaries, papers, books, accounts, newspaper and magazine articles, advertisements,

photographs, videos, notebooks, ledgers, letters, telegrams, cables, telex messages, facsimiles,

contracts, offers, agreements, reports, objects, tangible things, work papers, transcripts, minutes,

reports and recordings of telephone or other conversations or communications, or of interviews

or conferences, or of other meetings, occurrences or transactions, affidavits, statements,

summaries, opinions, tests, experiments, analysis, evaluations, journals, balance sheets, income

statements, statistical records, desk calendars, appointment books, lists, tabulations, sound

recordings, data processing input or output, microfilms, checks, statements, receipts, summaries,

computer printouts, computer programs, text messages, e-mails, information kept in computer

hard drives, other computer drives of any kind, computer tape back-up, CD-ROM, other

computer disks of any kind, teletypes, telecopies, invoices, worksheets, printed matter of every

kind and description, graphic and oral records and representations of any kind, and electronic

“writings” and “recordings” as set forth in the Federal Rules of Evidence, including but not




                                                  2
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 3 of 13



limited to, originals or copies where originals are not available. Any document with any marks

such as initials, comments or notations of any kind of not deemed to be identical with one

without such marks and is produced as a separate document. Where there is any question about

whether a tangible item otherwise described in these requests falls within the definition of

“document” such tangible item shall be produced.

       5.      “Employee” includes a past or present officer, director, agent or servant, including

any attorney (associate or partner) or paralegal.

       6.      “Including” means including without limitations.

       7.      “Jeffrey Epstein” includes Jeffrey Epstein and any entities owned or controlled by

Jeffrey Epstein, any employee, agent, attorney, consultant, or representative of Jeffrey Epstein.

       8.      “Person(s)” includes natural persons, proprietorships, governmental agencies,

corporations, partnerships, trusts, joint ventures, groups, associations, organizations or any other

legal or business entity.

       9.      “You” or “Your” hereinafter means Ghislaine Maxwell and any employee, agent,

attorney, consultant, related entities or other representative of Ghislaine Maxwell.

                                        INSTRUCTIONS

       1.      Unless indicated otherwise, the Relevant Period for this Request is from July

1999 to the present. A Document should be considered to be within the relevant time frame if it

refers or relates to communications, meetings or other events or documents that occurred or were

created within that time frame, regardless of the date of creation of the responsive Document.

       2.      This Request calls for the production of all responsive Documents in your

possession, custody or control without regard to the physical location of such documents.




                                                    3
         Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 4 of 13



         3.    If any Document requested was in any defendant’s possession or control, but is no

longer in its possession or control, state what disposition was made of said Document, the reason

for such disposition, and the date of such disposition.

         4.    For the purposes of reading, interpreting, or construing the scope of these

requests, the terms used shall be given their most expansive and inclusive interpretation. This

includes, without limitation the following:

               a)      Wherever appropriate herein, the singular form of a word shall be
                       interpreted as plural and vice versa.

               b)      “And” as well as “or” shall be construed either disjunctively or
                       conjunctively as necessary to bring within the scope hereof any
                       information (as defined herein) which might otherwise be construed to be
                       outside the scope of this discovery request.

               c)      “Any” shall be understood to include and encompass “all” and vice versa.

               d)      Wherever appropriate herein, the masculine form of a word shall be
                       interpreted as feminine and vice versa.

               e)      “Including” shall mean “including without limitation.”

         5.    If you are unable to answer or respond fully to any document request, answer or

respond to the extent possible and specify the reasons for your inability to answer or respond in

full. If the recipient has no documents responsive to a particular Request, the recipient shall so

state.

         6.    Unless instructed otherwise, each Request shall be construed independently and

not by reference to any other Request for the purpose of limitation.

         7.    The words “relate,” “relating,” “relates,” or any other derivative thereof, as used

herein includes concerning, referring to, responding to, relating to, pertaining to, connected with,

comprising, memorializing, evidencing, commenting on, regarding, discussing, showing,

describing, reflecting, analyzing or constituting.



                                                     4
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 5 of 13



       8.      “Identify” means, with respect to any “person,” or any reference to the “identity”

of any “person,” to provide the name, home address, telephone number, business name, business

address, business telephone number and a description of each such person’s connection with the

events in question.

       9.      “Identify” means, with respect to any “document,” or any reference to stating the

“identification” of any “document,” provide the title and date of each such document, the name

and address of the party or parties responsible for the preparation of each such document, the

name and address of the party who requested or required the preparation and on whose behalf it

was prepared, the name and address of the recipient or recipients to each such document and the

present location of any and all copies of each such document, and the names and addresses of all

persons who have custody or control of each such document or copies thereof.

       10.     In producing Documents, if the original of any Document cannot be located, a

copy shall be produced in lieu thereof, and shall be legible and bound or stapled in the same

manner as the original.

       11.     Any copy of a Document that is not identical shall be considered a separate

document.

       12.     If any requested Document cannot be produced in full, produce the Document to

the extent possible, specifying each reason for your inability to produce the remainder of the

Document stating whatever information, knowledge or belief which you have concerning the

portion not produced.

       13.     If any Document requested was at any one time in existence but are no longer in

existence, then so state, specifying for each Document (a) the type of document; (b) the types of

information contained thereon; (c) the date upon which it ceased to exist; (d) the circumstances




                                                5
        Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 6 of 13



under which it ceased to exist; (e) the identity of all person having knowledge of the

circumstances under which it ceased to exist; and (f) the identity of all persons having

knowledge or who had knowledge of the contents thereof and each individual’s address.

        14.     All Documents shall be produced in the same order as they are kept or maintained

by you in the ordinary course of business.

        15.     You are requested to produce all drafts and notes, whether typed, handwritten or

otherwise, made or prepared in connection with the requested Documents, whether or not used.

        16.     Documents attached to each other shall not be separated.

        17.     Documents shall be produced in such fashion as to identify the department,

branch or office in whose possession they were located and, where applicable, the natural person

in whose possession they were found, and business address of each Document’s custodian(s).

        18.     If any Document responsive to the request is withheld, in all or part, based upon

any claim of privilege or protection, whether based on statute or otherwise, state separately for

each Document, in addition to any other information requested: (a) the specific request which

calls for the production; (b) the nature of the privilege claimed; (c) its date; (d) the name and

address of each author; (e) the name and address of each of the addresses and/or individual to

whom the Document was distributed, if any; (f) the title (or position) of its author; (g) type of

tangible object, e.g., letter, memorandum, telegram, chart, report, recording, disk, etc.; (h) its title

and subject matter (without revealing the information as to which the privilege is claimed); (i)

with sufficient specificity to permit the Court to make full determination as to whether the claim

of privilege is valid, each and every fact or basis on which you claim such privilege; and (j)

whether the document contained an attachment and to the extent you are claiming a privilege as

to the attachment, a separate log entry addressing that privilege claim.




                                                   6
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 7 of 13



       19.     If any Document requested herein is withheld, in all or part, based on a claim that

such Document constitutes attorney work product, provide all of the information described in

Instruction No. 19 and also identify the litigation in connection with which the Document and the

information it contains was obtained and/or prepared.

       20.     Plaintiff does not seek and does not require the production of multiple copies of

identical Documents.

       21.     This Request is deemed to be continuing. If, after producing these Documents,

you obtain or become aware of any further information, Documents, things, or information

responsive to this Request, you are required to so state by supplementing your responses and

producing such additional Documents to Plaintiff.


                                 DOCUMENTS REQUESTED


DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 1

All documents relating to communications with Jeffrey Epstein from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 2

All documents relating to communications with Virginia Roberts Giuffre from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 3

All documents relating to communications with Andrew Albert Christian Edward, Duke of York
(a.k.a. Prince Andrew) from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 4

All documents relating to communications between you and Jeffrey Epstein regarding any
female under the age of 18 from the period of 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 5

All documents relating to massages, including but not limited to any documents reflecting
recruiting or hiring masseuses, advertising for masseuses, flyers created for distribution at high
schools or colleges, and records reflecting e-mails or calls to individuals relating to massages.


                                                 7
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 8 of 13



DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 6

All documents relating to communications with any of the following individuals from 1999 –
present: Emmy Taylor, Sarah Kellen, Eva Dubin, Glen Dubin, Jean Luc Brunel, and Nadia
Marcinkova.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 7

All video tapes, audio tapes, photographs or any other print or electronic media relating to
females under the age of 18 from the period of 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 8

All documents relating to your travel from the period of 1999 – present, including but not limited
to, any travel on Jeffrey Epstein’s planes, commercial flights, helicopters, passport records,
records indicating passengers traveling with you, hotel records, and credit card receipts.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 9

All documents identifying passengers, manifests, or flight plans for any helicopter or plane ever
owned or controlled by you or Jeffrey Epstein or any associated entity from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 10

All documents relating to payments made from Jeffrey Epstein or any related entity to you from
1999 – present, including payments for work performed, gifts, real estate purchases, living
expenses, and payments to your charitable endeavors including the TerraMar project.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 11

All documents relating to or describing any work you performed with Jeffrey Epstein, or any
affiliated entity from 1999 –present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 12

All confidentiality agreements between you and Jeffrey Epstein or any entity to which he is
related or involved or such agreements which are or were in your possession or control related to
any other employee of Jeffrey Epstein, or any associated entity.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 13

All documents from you, your attorneys or agents to any law enforcement entity, or from any
law enforcement entity to you or any of your representatives, related to any cooperation,
potential charge, immunity or deferred prosecution, or which relates to suspected or known
criminal activity.




                                                 8
       Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 9 of 13



DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 14

All documents relating to travel of any female under the age of 18 from the period of 1999 –
present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 15

All video tapes, audio tapes, photographs or any other print or electronic media taken at a time
when you were in Jeffrey Esptein’s company or inside any of his residences or aircraft.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 16

All computers, hard drives or copies thereof for all computers in operation between 1999 –
2002.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 17

All documents relating to communications with you and Ross Gow from 2005 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 18

All video tapes, audio tapes, photographs or any other print or electronic media relating to
Virginia Roberts Guiffre.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 19

All documents relating to your deposition scheduled in the matter of Jane Doe v. Epstein, 08-
80893, United States Southern District of Florida.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 20

All documents relating to any credit cards used that were paid for by Jeffrey Epstein or any
related entity from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 21

All telephone records associated with you, including cell phone records from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 22

All documents relating to calendars, schedules or appointments for you from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 23

All documents relating to calendars, schedules or appointments for Jeffrey Epstein from 1999-
present.



                                                 9
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 10 of 13



DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 24

All documents relating to contact lists, phone lists or address books for you or Jeffrey Epstein
from 1999 – present.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 25

All documents relating to any hospital records for Virginia Roberts Guiffre.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 26

All documents relating to any passport or license for Virginia Roberts Guiffre.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 27

All documents relating to any gifts or monetary payments provided to Virginia Roberts Guiffre
by you, Jeffrey Epstein or any related entity.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 28

All documents relating to Virginia Robert’s employment or work as an independent contractor
with you, Jeffrey Epstein or any related entity.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 29

All documents identifying any individuals to whom Virginia Roberts provided a massage.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 30

All documents relating to any employee lists or records associated with you, Jeffrey Epstein or
any related entity.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 31

All documents relating to Victoria Secret, models or actresses, who were ever in the presence of
you or Jeffrey Epstein or Virginia Roberts between 1999 and 2005.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 32

All documents related to communications with or interaction with Alan Dershowitz from 1999 to
present.
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 33

All travel records between 1999 and the present reflecting your presence in: (a) Palm Beach,
Florida or immediately surrounding areas; (b) 9 E. 71st Street, New York, NY 10021; (c) New
Mexico; (d) U.S. Virgin Islands; (e) any jet or aircraft owned or controlled by Jeffrey Epstein.



                                                10
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 11 of 13



DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 34

All documents reflecting your ownership or control of property in London between the years
1999 and 2002.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 35

All documents reflecting your or Jeffrey Epstein’s membership or visits to the Mar-a-Lago Club
in Palm Beach Florida between the years 1999 and 2002.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 36

All documents you rely upon to establish that (a) Giuffre’s sworn allegations “against Ghislaine
Maxwell are untrue.” (b) the allegations have been “shown to be untrue.”; and (c) Giuffre’s
“claims are obvious lies.”

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 37

All documents reflecting communications you have had with Bill or Hillary Clinton (or persons
acting on their behalf), including all communications regarding your attendance at Chelsea’s
Clinton’s wedding ceremony in 2010.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 38

All documents reflecting contact with you by any law enforcement or police agency, including
any contact by the FBI, Palm Beach Police Department, or West Palm Beach Police Department.

DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 39

All documents reflecting training to fly a helicopter or experience flying a helicopter, including
any records concerning your operation of a helicopter in the U.S. Virgin Islands.




                                                11
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 12 of 13



Dated: October 27, 2015

                                By: /s/ David Boies
                                     David Boies
                                     Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                     333 Main Street
                                     Armonk, NY 10504

                                    /s/ Sigrid McCawley
                                    Sigrid McCawley
                                    (Pro Hac Vice Pending)
                                    Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                    401 E. Las Olas Blvd., Suite 1200
                                    Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301
                                    (954) 356-0011

                                    Ellen Brockman
                                    Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                    575 Lexington Ave
                                    New York, New York 10022
                                    (212) 446-2300




                                      12
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 17-1 Filed 12/01/15 Page 13 of 13



                               CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I HEREBY CERTIFY that on the 27th day of October, 2015, I served the attached

document PLAINTIFF’S FIRST REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS TO DEFENDANT GHISLAINE

MAXWELL via Email to the following counsel of record.

       Laura A. Menninger, Esq.
       HADDON, MORGAN & FOREMAN, P.C.
       150 East 10th Avenue
       Denver, Colorado 80203
       Tel: (303) 831-7364
       Fax: (303) 832-2628
       Email: lmenninger@hmflaw.com


                                                         /s/ Sigrid S. McCawley
                                                         Sigrid S. McCawley




                                              13
