        Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 35-1 Filed 02/26/16 Page 1 of 4



                                United States District Court
                               Southern District of New York


Virginia L. Giuffre,

               Plaintiff,                   Case No.: 15-cv-07433-RWS

v.

Ghislaine Maxwell,

            Defendant.
________________________________/

 APPENDIX A TO PLAINTIFF, VIRGINIA GIUFFRE’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE
    PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS SUBJECT TO IMPROPER OBJECTIONS



       A.      Request No. 1

              i.   Verbatim Statement of Request No. 1:

       All documents relating to communications with Jeffery Epstein from 1999 – Present

             ii.    Maxwell’s Response:

        Maxwell objects to this Request on the grounds that it is overly broad and unduly
burdensome and calls for the production of documents that are irrelevant to this action and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Maxwell further objects
to this Request to the extent it seeks documents or information protected by the attorney/client
privilege, the work-product doctrine, the common interest privilege or any other applicable
privilege.

       Subject to and without waiving the above objections, Maxwell is withholding documents
outside of the Relevant Periods described in paragraph15, supra, and is withholding production
of documents that are privileged pursuant to a common interest agreement.

       B.      Request No. 2

              i.       Verbatim Statement of Request No. 2

       All documents relating to communications with Virginia Roberts Giuffre from 1999 -
Present.


                                                1
        Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 35-1 Filed 02/26/16 Page 2 of 4



             ii.       Maxwell’s Response

       Maxwell has been unable to locate any such documents.


       C.         Request No. 6

            i.         Verbatim Statement of Request No. 6

       All documents relating to communications with any of the following individuals from
1999 – present: Emmy Taylor, Sarah Kellen, Eva Dubin, Glen Dubin, Jean Luc Brunel, and
Nadia Marcinkova.

             ii.       Maxwell’s Response:

       Maxwell objects to this Request on the grounds that it is overly broad, unduly
burdensome and/or propounded for the improper purpose of annoying or harassing Maxwell.
Maxwell further objects to this Request on the grounds that it calls for the production of
documents that are irrelevant to this action and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.

        Subject to and without waiving the above objections, Maxwell is withholding production
of documents relating to communications with Nadia Marcinkova, Sarah Kellen and Eva Dubin
that are outside of the Relevant Periods described in paragraph15, supra. Maxwell has been
unable to locate any such documents relating to Ms. Marcinkova, Ms. Kellen or Ms. Dubin
within the Relevant Periods. Maxwell also has been unable to locate any such documents
responsive to this Request relating to Glen Dubin, Jean Luc Brunel or Emmy Taylor for any time
period.


       D.         Request No. 12

                 i.    Verbatim Statement of Request No. 12

         All confidentiality agreements between you and Jeffrey Epstein or any entity to which he
is related or involved or such agreements which are or were in your possession or control related
to any other employee of Jeffrey Epstein, or any associated entity.

             ii.       Maxwell’s Response:

        Maxwell objects to this Request in that the terms “confidentiality agreements” and
“associated entity” are vague, undefined and susceptible of multiple meanings and definitions
Maxwell objects to this Request on the grounds that it is overly broad, unduly burdensome
and/or propounded for the improper purpose of annoying or harassing Maxwell. Maxwell further
objects to this Request on the grounds that it calls for the production of documents that are
irrelevant to this action and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.


                                                 2
        Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 35-1 Filed 02/26/16 Page 3 of 4



        Subject to and without waiving the above objections, Maxwell has been unable to
locate any documents responsive to this Request

       E.      Request No. 13

               i.    Verbatim Statement of Request No.13:

    All documents from you, your attorneys or agents to any law enforcement entity, or from any
law enforcement entity to you or any of your representatives related to any cooperation, potential
charge, immunity or deferred prosecution, or which relates to suspected or known criminal
activity.

               ii.   Maxwell’s Response:

        Ms. Maxwell objects to this Request as vague and confusing. Ms. Maxwell objects to this
Request to the extent it requests documents subject to either the attorney-client or work product
privileges. Ms. Maxwell objects to this Request on the grounds that it is overly broad, unduly
burdensome and/or propounded for the improper purpose of annoying or harassing Ms. Maxwell.
Ms. Maxwell further objects to this Request on the grounds that it calls for the production of
documents that are irrelevant to this action and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.

        Subject to and without waiving the above objections, Ms. Maxwell has been unable to
locate any documents responsive to this Request.

       F.      Request No. 14

               i.    Verbatim Statement of Request No. 14:

       All documents relating to travel of any female under the age of 18 from the period of
1999 - present.

               ii.   Maxwell’s Response:

       Ms. Maxwell objects to this Request on the grounds that it is overly broad, unduly
burdensome and/or propounded for the improper purpose of annoying or harassing Ms. Maxwell.
Ms. Maxwell further objects to this Request on the grounds that it calls for the production of
documents that are irrelevant to this action and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.

        Subject to and without waiving the above objections, Ms. Maxwell has been unable to
locate any documents responsive to this Request.




                                                3
        Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 35-1 Filed 02/26/16 Page 4 of 4



       G.     Request No. 35

              i.    Verbatim Statement of Request No. 35:

       All documents reflecting you or Jeffrey Epstein’s membership or visits to the Mar-a-Lago
Club in Palm Beach Florida between the years 1999 and 2002.

              ii.   Verbatim Statement of Response:

       Ms. Maxwell has been unable to locate any documents responsive to this Request.

       H.     Request No. 38

             i.     Verbatim Statement of Request No. 38

       All documents reflecting contact with you by any law enforcement or police agency,
including any contact by the FBI, Palm Beach Police Department, or West Palm Beach Police
Department.

            ii.     Verbatim Statement of Response:

       Maxwell has been unable to locate any documents responsive to this Request.




                                               4
