Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 1 of 26




                  EXHIBIT 1
 Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 2 of 26
                                                                                521
      A.C.

                                   [HOUSE OF LORDS]

      WAUGH                                                             APPELLANT
                                           AND
      BRITISH RAILWAYS BOARD                                         RESPONDENTS
B
      1979 May 16, 17, 21;               Lord Wilberforce, Lord Simon of Glaisdale,
           July 12                  Lord Edmund-Davies, Lord Russell of Killowen
                                                            and Lord Keith of Kinkel
      Practice — Discovery — Privilege — Accident report by servants
          of railways board in pursuance of practice of board—Partly
p         prepared for safety purposes and partly for obtaining legal
^         advice in anticipation of legal proceedings—Whether latter
          purpose to be dominant for claim to privilege to succeed—
          Whether form of wording of report conclusive as to purpose
          for which prepared
              The plaintiff's husband was employed by the defendant
          railways board. In a collision between locomotives, he
          received injuries from which he died. The practice of the
D         board when an accident occurred was that on the day of the
          accident a brief report was made to the railway inspectorate,
          soon afterwards a joint internal report (" the joint inquiry
          report") was prepared incorporating statements of witnesses,
          which was also sent to the inspectorate, and in due course a
          report was made by the inspectorate for the Department of the
          Environment. The heading of the joint inquiry report stated
          that it had finally to be sent to the board's solicitor for the
E         purpose of enabling him to advise the board. The plaintiff
          brought an action against the board under the Fatal Acci­
          dents Acts, alleging that the collision had been caused by their
          negligence, and sought discovery of, inter alia, the joint inquiry
          report. The board, who denied negligence and alleged that
          the collision had been caused or contributed to by the
          deceased's own negligence, refused to disclose the report on
          the ground, as stated in an affidavit sworn on their behalf,
^         that one of the principal purposes of preparing it had been
          so that it could be passed to their chief solicitor to enable
          him to advise the board on its legal liability and, if necessary,
          conduct their defence to the proceedings, and that it was
          accordingly the subject of legal professional privilege. On
          an interlocutory application by the plaintiff for discovery of
          the report, the master ordered discovery, but an appeal by the
_,        board from his order was allowed by Donaldson J., and the
*-*       Court of Appeal by a majority (Eveleigh L.J. and Sir David
          Cairns, Lord Denning M.R. dissenting) dismissed an appeal
          by the plaintiff from Donaldson J.'s order.
              On appeal by the plaintiff: —
              Held, allowing the appeal, that the due administration of
          justice strongly required that a document such as the internal
          inquiry report, which was contemporary, contained statements
n         by witnesses on the spot and would almost certainly be the
          best evidence as to the cause of the accident, should be dis­
          closed; that for that important public interest to be overridden
          by a claim of privilege the purpose of submission to the party's
          legal advisers in anticipation of litigation must be at least the
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 3 of 26
   522
                              Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))                                 [19803
                         dominant purpose for which it had been prepared; and that,
                                                                                                                  A
                         in the present case,, the purpose, of obtaining legal advice in
                         anticipation of litigation having been no more than of equal
                         rank and weight with the purpose of railway operation and
                         safety, .the board's claim for privilege.failed and the.report
                         should be disclosed (post, pp. 531A-B, H — 5 3 2 B ,                           533B-D,
                         5 3 4 F - G , 5 3 5 B - C , 5 3 7 E - G , 5 3 8 A - B , 543c—545A, D - F ) .
  ■:-;•■'..                 . Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd: v.
                          London and North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850,
                          C.A.; Ankinv. London and North Eastern Railway Co. [1930]        "
                       . 1 K.B.' 527, C.A. and Ogden v. London Electric Railway Co.
                      . (1933) 49 T.L.R. 542, C.A. overruled.
                              Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia (1876) 2 Ch.D. 644,
                          Sir George Jessel M.R. and C.A. and Grant v. Downs (1976)
                          135 C.L.R. 674 considered.           ■•...•■,.-
                              Per curiam. The fact that the report stated on its face that
                          it had finally to be sent to the board's solicitor for the .-,
                          purpose of- enabling him to advise it cannot be conclusive
                      - as to the dominant purpose for which.it was prepared (post,
                         pp. 53 1A, 5 3 8 A - B , 5 3 9 E - G , 5 4 5 E - F ) .   .
                            Dictum of Lord Strathclyde, Lord. President, in Whitehill
                         v. Glasgow Corporation, 1915 S.C. 1015, 1017 applied.
                            Decision of the Court of Appeal reversed.

              The following cases are referred to in their Lordships' opinions:                                   j)
              Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia (1876) 2,Ch.D. 644, Sir George
                   Jessel M.R. and C.A.
              Ankin v. London and North Eastern Railway Co. [1930] 1 K.B. 527, C.A.
              Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and North
                   Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850, C.A.
              Conway v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910; [1968] 2 W.L.R. 998; [1968] 1                                     F
                   All E.R. 874, H.L.(E.).
              Crofter Hand Woven Harris Tweed Co. Ltd. v. Veitch [1942] A.C. 435;
                   [1942] 1 All E.R. 142, H.L.(Sc).
              Crompton (Alfred) Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs and Excise
                   Commissioners (No. 2) [1974] A.C. 405; [1973] 3 W.L.R. 268;
                   [1973] 2 All E.R. 1169, H.L.(E.).
              D. v. National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children [1978]                             F
                   A.C. 171; [1977] 2 W.L.R. 201; [1977] 1 All E.R. 589, H.L.(E.).
              Grant v. Downs (1976) 135 C.L.R. 674; 11 A.L.R. 577.
              Jones v. Great Central Railway Co. [1910] A.C. 4, H.L.(E.).
              Jones v. Monte Video Gas Co. (1880) 5 Q.B.D. 556, C.A.
              Konia v. Morley [1976] 1 N.Z.L.R. 455.
              Lawrence v. Campbell (1859) 4 Drew. 485.
                                                                                                                  G
              Longthorn v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530; [1959]
                   2 All E.R. 32.
              Northern Construction Co. v. British Columbia Hydro and Power Autho­
                   rity (1970) 75 W.W.R. 21.
              Ogden v. London Electric Railway Co. (1933) 49 T.L.R. 542, C.A.
              Reg. in Right of Canada v. Hawker Siddeley Canada Ltd. (1976) 73
                   D.L.R. (3d) 453.                                                                               H
              Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 509; [1959]
                   2 All E.R. 15.
              Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick (1878) 3 Q.B.D. 315, C.A.
 Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 4 of 26
                                                                      523
    A.C.                 Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.) )
           Vernon v. Board of Education for the Borough of North York (1975)
A
              9 O.R.(2d) 613.
           Whitehill v. Glasgow Corporation, 1915 S.C. 1015.
        The following additional cases were cited in argument:
        Adam Steamship Co. Ltd. v. London Assurance Corporation [1914] 3
            K.B. 1256, C.A.
B       Collins v. London General Omnibus Co. (1893) 68 L.T. 831, D.C.
        Cook v. North Metropolitan Tramway Co. (1889) 54 J.P. 263, D.C.
        London and Tilbury Railway Co. v. Kirk and Randall (1884) 28 S.J. 688,
            D.C.
        Westminster Airways Ltd. v. Kuwait Oil Co. Ltd. [1951] 1 K.B. 134;
            [1950] 2 All E.R. 596, C.A.
        Woolley v. North London Railway Co. (1869) L.R. 4 C.P. 602.
C
       INTERLOCUTORY APPEAL      from the Court of Appeal.
        By an action against the respondent defendants, the British Railways
    Board, the appellant plaintiff, Alice Simpson Waugh (widow of John
    Wallace Waugh, deceased), claimed damages against the board in respect
    of the death of the deceased under the provisions of the Fatal Accidents
J-J Acts 1846-1959, alleging that a collision between two of the board's
    locomotives that had resulted in the death of the deceased, who had been
    employed by the board, had been caused by the negligence of the board,
    their servants or their agents. By their defence, the board denied negli­
    gence, and alleged that the collision had been caused or contributed to by
    the deceased's own negligence. The plaintiff sought discovery of an internal
    inquiry report made by two officers of the board two days after the
 E accident, but the board refused discovery on the ground of legal pro­
    fessional privilege. On an interlocutory application by the plaintiff, Master
    Bickford Smith, on January 26, 1978, ordered disclosure of the report, but
    Donaldson J., on May 8, 1978, allowed an appeal by the board from that
    order. The Court of Appeal, on July 28, 1978, by a majority (Eveleigh L.J.
    and Sir David Cairns, Lord Denning M.R. dissenting) dismissed an appeal
 p by the plaintiff. The plaintiff appealed by leave of the Court of Appeal.
        The facts are set out in their Lordships' opinions.

       Peter Weitzman Q.C. and Michael Brent for the plaintiff. Where a
   report is brought into existence for several reasons or purposes only one
   of which is to obtain professional legal advice in litigation that is pending
   or anticipated, is it protected by legal professional privilege from dis-
G covery? What is the test? There are a number of possible answers.
   (1) It is enough to secure privilege if the intention to obtain legal advice is
   a purpose, inter alia. (2) The intention to obtain legal advice must be at
   least a substantial purpose. (3) The purpose for which the document is
   brought into existence must be wholly or mainly that of obtaining profes­
   sional legal advice, or it must have been " the primary," " the substan-
JJ tive," or " the dominant," purpose (these different phrases have all been
   used in the cases). (4) It must be the sole purpose. The plaintiff says
   that the answer is (4), alternatively, possibly, (3).
       As to the authorities, the following preliminary observations may be
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 5 of 26
   524
                       Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))          [1980]
   made. At one time, the practice differed as between equity and com- .
   mon law. (2) R.S.C., Ord. 24, r. 5, first came into existence in 1894 as
   R.S.C., Ord. 31, r. 19A. It was not until then that there was power in
   the court to inspect the documents in respect of which privilege was
   claimed. The authorities fall into three groups: (i) pre-1913; (ii) Birming­
   ham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and North Western
   Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden v. London Electric Railway
   Co. (1939) 49 T.L.R. 542; (iii) the cases after that, which do not add B
   much. Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick (1878) 3 Q.B.D. 315
   is strong authority for the " sole purpose " test, and Collins v. London
   General Omnibus Co. (1893) 68 L.T. 831 is also clear authority that at
   that stage the test was the " sole purpose " test. [Reference was made
   to Woolley v. North London Railway Co. (1869) L.R. 4 C.P. 602;
   Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia (1876) 2 Ch.D. 644; London and
   Tilbury Railway Co. v. Kirk and Randall (1884) 28 S.J. 688; Cook v. C
   North Metropolitan Tramway Co. (1889) 54 J.P. 263; and the Sixteenth
   Report of the Law Reform Committee (Privilege in Civil Proceedings)
   (1967) (Cmnd. 3472), pp. 8 (para. 17), 13.]
        Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and
   North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 turns, to begin with, on
   the form of words used in the affidavit (Eveleigh L.J. in the present case D
   said that the judgment of Buckley L.J. there could be read in that way).
   It was not, therefore, intended to deal with the proper principles or test to
   be applied. Alternatively, Buckley and Hamilton L.JJ. were by implica­
   tion referring to the " dominant purpose " test. The plaintiff relies on the
   passage at p. 860: " The only authority . . ." Hamilton L.J. is at least
   saying that there is no authority for the view that the purpose does not
   at least have to be the primary or substantial purpose, and the judgment
   of Buckley L.J., even taken on its own, does not go to the extent of
   contradicting that of Hamilton L.J.: see at p. 856: " I t is not I think
   necessary . . ." (In Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick, 3
   Q.B.D. 315, the word " merely " was used a number of times by Brett L.J.)
   The argument in the Birmingham case was directed largely to the form
   of the affidavit. There is no suggestion in the report that there was any F
   other purpose. The judgment of Buckley L.J. relates primarily to the
   wording of the affidavit rather than to the substance of it. [Reference
   was made to Adam Steamship Co. Ltd. v. London Assurance Corpora­
   tion [1914] 3 K.B. 1256 and Ankin V. London and North Eastern Rail­
   way Co. [1931] 1K.B.527.]
        Ogden V. London Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, is moving to
   the position that, as a matter of substance, it is enough that one, substan- ®
   tial, purpose for bringing the document into existence is that it shall be
   available for legal advice. This is inconsistent with the judgments in
   Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick, 3 Q.B.D. 315. Scrutton L.J.
   misinterpreted that case, and wrongly extended what the Birmingham case
   decided. Ogden was wrongly decided, if it is authority that a substantial
   purpose is sufficient. Westminster Airways Ltd. v. Kuwait Oil Co. Ltd; JJ
    [1951] 1 K.B. 134 is against the plaintiff: it shows that, since Ogden, the
   courts have been following Ogden and taking the view that a substantial
   purpose is enough. There is a reference to " other purposes " at p. 143.
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 6 of 26
                                                                          525
     A.C.              Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))
     [Reference was made to Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959]
A
     1 W.L.R. 509; Longthorn v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1
     W.L.R. 530 and Alfred Crompton Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs
     and Excise Commissioners (No. 2) [1974] A.C. 405.]
         The privilege should only be accorded where it is necessary in order
     to achieve the purpose for which it is designed. Where the party would
     have brought the document into existence apart from the seeking of legal
B    advice, there is no need for the privilege. Before 1894, when only the
     affidavit was produced, the inability of the court to inspect the actual
     documents could lead to abuse or mistake. Birmingham and Midland
     Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and North Western Railway Co.
      [1913] 3 K.B. 850 was the first case where the court examined what the
     affidavit had to say and also looked at the documents. Thus, the language
     of the affidavit was no longer vital. There were now two questions:
C    should the court inspect the documents, and was the form of words
     conclusive? Because the court could inspect the documents, the form of
     words was no longer conclusive. [Reference was made to Grant v.
     Downs (1976) 135 C.L.R. 674; Wigmore's Law of Evidence (1905), vol. iv,
     paras. 2317-2319 and R.S.C., Ord. 38, r. 29.]
         The plaintiff's submissions, in summary, are as follows. 1. Ogden v.
D    London Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, was wrongly decided. One
     can go back to the situation before Birmingham and Midland Motor
     Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3
     K.B. 850, where, as was said in Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v.
     Quick, 3 Q.B.D. 315, the sole purpose test was the appropriate test.
     What is said by Lord Cross of Chelsea in Alfred Crompton Amusement
     Machines Ltd. v. Customs and Excise Commissioners (No. 2) [1974]
E    A.C. 405, with the concurrence of the others of their Lordships, is that
     the matter is now open for the House to decide what is the appropriate
     test to be applied—that is, presumably, that which is most desirable in
     the interests of justice. If privilege is to be accorded to a document, it
     is only to be accorded where that is necessary for the basic rationale
     of the rule, as expressed, inter alia, by Sir George Jessel M.R. in
p    Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia (1876) 2 Ch.D. 644, 648-649.
     If a document comes into existence in circumstances such that it
     cannot be shown that it would not have come into existence but for
     the purposes of litigation, then in truth the privilege does not serve
     the purpose that is the basis of the rule, but merely provides an adventi­
     tious advantage. This is particularly the case with large corporate
      employers who are obliged to collect knowledge, as in this case. These
^     points were made in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, on which
      the plaintiff very much relies. The problem posed can best be met by
      applying the sole purpose test; alternatively, the dominant purpose test,
      on the basis that the dominant purpose is the one that, if it had not
      existed, would mean that the document would not have come into exist­
      ence. Here, the litigation purpose is at the highest one of two equal
JJ    purposes.
          Francis Irwin Q.C. and Frederick Marr-Johnson for the board. The
     powers of the inspectors appointed by the Secretary of State are set out
      in section 4 of the Regulation of Railways Act 1871. The report of
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 7 of 26
  526
                       Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))           [1980]
  October 29, 1976, can be obtained by. anyone from the Ministry of Trans-
  port or Her Majesty's Stationery Office.
       One of the objects of privilege is to prevent one party from seeing in
  detail what the other party's case is. It is very difficult to define " sub­
  stantial." As to the tests, (1) once duality has been raised, there is no
  English case that has approved the sole purpose test. The only case,
  relied on by the plaintiff, is Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674. (2) the
  dominant purpose test has not been used by any judge except Barwick
  C.J. in Grant v. Downs. How does one assess dominance? Dominance
  in whose eyes? At what particular time?
       [LORD EDMUND-DAVIES. In a civilised society, would not the domin­
  ant purpose be to find out what happened, so as to prevent it from
  happening again?]
       In this case, there was no dominant purpose. The second report, the C
  joint inquiry report of May 6, 1976, was really the collection of evidence.
  One difficulty of this approach is to distinguish between one aspect and
  another: which is the important one? The answer here should therefore
  be that the real test here can be described as a " substantial purpose "-r-
  " a substantial purpose "—test, or an " appreciable purpose " test. " An
  appreciable " means that it is something of consequence. The board does -Q
  not accept the substantial purpose test because there was not a substantial
  purpose here. If there had been one, they would not go as far as to
  accept that test. They would accept that it is a question of "dominant
  in whose eyes? " Even there, there is difficulty, because one might have,
  for example, two members of a family charged with making a report about
  an accident that had happened to them: one might regard the dominant
  purpose of the report as liability, the other safety. " A dominant pur- E
  pose " means a substantial purpose without the need to inquire whether it
  was the dominant purpose. There are two basic criteria: (1) that the test
  should be fair to both parties to the litigation; (2) that it should be simple
  to understand and easy to apply in practice. Support for the " a substan­
  tial purpose " test is found in the judgment of Diplock J. in Longthorn
  V. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530, 534; see also Konia p
   v. Morley [1976] 1 N.Z.L.R. 455 and the test that Eveleigh L.J. applied
  in the present case. Provided that the board establish a substantial purpose,
  they concede that there may be cases—not this one-^-where there may be
  a more important function. Thus, the substantial, appreciable purpose
   test ought to be applied. It represents the law and practice of at least
   the last 60 years. It is fair to both parties, in the sense that the privilege
  attaching to the document supports the case of the board in this instance. G
  It has that advantage, but it precludes the plaintiff, on general grounds,
  from having access to information to which otherwise she would be
  •entitled.
        [LORD SIMON OF GLAISDALE. There are two conflicting principles—
  curiously, both advanced to further the administration of justice. They
  point in different directions. One usually tries to resolve such a conflict JJ
  [byfindinga middle line.]
  ■< That is the difficulty here: to find a workable middle line. This
  advances the board's case for "substantial" or "appreciable."
 Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 8 of 26
                                                                               527
     \.C.   '           ;Waugh V.British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))
          [LORD.RUSSELL OF KILLOWEN. What about the preliminary accident
     report?. There must also have been a report to the police?]
          The accident report was not disclosed. The coroner's notes were dis­
     closed. The board could hold two inquiries, one as to liability and..one
     as to safety. It could not then be said that the first would be disclosable:
     The second would be.
          The plaintiff says.that Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick;
B    3 Q.B.D. 315, is strong authority for the sole purpose test. There, the
     court was not concerned with any duality of purpose, and they were not
     directing their mind to that point. "Secondly, the plaintiff says that
     Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and
     North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 turned mainly on the
     form of words used in the affidavit and was not, therefore, intended to
     deal with the proper principles and the test to be applied; alternatively,
C    she suggests that Buckley and Hamilton LJJ. were by implication referring
     to the dominant purpose test. That case has been considered ever since
     it was decided as settling matters of principle, and it is not correct to say
     that within the language used the court were favouring the dominant
     purpose test. There is no distinction between " primary " and " domim
     ant"; that is why one should prefer the substantial purpose test.
D       ' The plaintiff said that Ogden v. London Electric Railway Co., 49
     T.L.R. 542, was Wrongly decided: Scrutton L.J. misinterpreted the
     Southwark and Vauxhall case and extended what had been decided in the
     Birmingham case. Ogden, like the Birmingham case, has been regarded
     as settling matters of principle now for "a great number of years; Scrutton
     L.J. took a correct view of the Southwark and Vauxhall Case and correctly
     interpreted and applied the Birmingham case. The present state of the
E    law, based principally on the Birmingham case, the Ogden case and othef
     cases referred to in Seabrook. v. British Transport Commission [1959]
     1 W.L;R. 509, may be summarised as follows. (1) All communications
     between a client or his legal adviser and third parties are prima facie
     privileged if one of the purposes for which they are made is the purpose
     of pending or contemplated litigation. (2) This purpose need not be the
p    " dominant" purpose for the document's existence, but it must be a
     "substantial" or "appreciable" purpose. (3) Whether or not the pur­
     pose is sufficiently substantial to attract the cloak of privilege will be a
     question of fact and degree in every case. There is no magic in any
     particular form of words, and (for example) it is not necessary that the
     affidavit should state that information was obtained " solely " o r " merely "
     or " primarily " for the legal adviser. (4) Such a communication remains
G    privileged notwithstanding the fact that it is brought into existence as a
     matter of routine, or in accordance with standing instructions, and not­
     withstanding the fact that it may pass through various hands before
     coming finally to the legal adviser.
          If the test is dominant purpose, it is possible to argue that the dominant
     purpose of the joint inquiry report was an inquiry into liability. The
JJ    " label" on the affidavit of the assistant to the general manager of the
     board's Eastern Region in support of the board's claim of privilege artd
      on the joint inquiry report cannot be more than an indication of its pur-;
     pose. Paragraph 2 of the board's list of documents, stating that they have
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 9 of 26
  528
                    Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))         [1980]
  in their possession, custody or power the documents " relating to the .
  matters in question in this action" enumerated in the first schedule, is
  standard form.
      Marr-Johnson following on the Commonwealth authorities. As to
  Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, the House should have in mind the
  principle set out by the majority there. Using shorthand, they applied the
  sole purpose test. The judgment of the majority is based on a fallacy,
  based on a misunderstanding of Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia B
  (1876) 2 Ch.D. 644: see at pp. 687-689. It can be reduced to four pro­
  positions. (1) An ordinary individual can always be compelled to dis­
  close his own knowledge of relevant facts. (2) A corporation generally
  has to acquire knowledge of relevant facts through the written communi­
  cations of its agents. (3) It would be extraordinary if a corporation could
  claim the benefit of a privilege that was not available to an ordinary
  individual. (4) The majority conclude that, if the dual purpose claim
  is allowed the effect would be precisely that. The board agrees with
  (3), but (4) does not follow from (1) and (2). (1) is correct, but " relevant
  facts" means the basic facts of the transaction, the res gestae, one
  might almost say: the written documents in an accident case—typically,
  the entry in the accident book in a factory case—or, in a commercial
  case, the bank account in question. Anderson v. Bank of British D
  Columbia is probably right if one reads it from end to end. The facts
  were wholly different from those in Grant v. Downs. That is plain,
  especially from the judgment of Mellish L.J., at p. 658: " . . . as to the
  question that we have to decide in this case . . . "
      It is well-established that a client is entitled to act on behalf of his
  legal adviser in obtaining information from third parties. A corporation
  is in no different position from an individual. That point was made
  clearly by Cotton L.J. in Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v. Quick,
  3 Q.B.D. 315, 321. There is no difference at all that the board is aware
  of. It is plain from all the judgments in Anderson v. Bank of British
  Columbia, 2 Ch.D. 644, particularly that of Mellish L.J., that all the docu­
  ments there would legitimately have been the subject of discovery if the
  bank had been in England: they were, in truth, bankers' records.              F
      The board is not aware of any case other than Grant v. Downs, 135
  C.L.R. 674, where the sole purpose test has been applied. It is not right
  to draw the line at that particular point. If one is to draw a line at
  all, one should draw it where it is capable of being applied easily in
  practice (it is not only High Court judges who have to apply it).
  Apart from Australia, the Commonwealth authorities all apply the sub-
  stantial purpose test, which does work adequately in practice. One "
  might have two different safety officers, one concerned with safety, one
  with liability. Or one might have a document 90 per cent, of which was
  concerned with safety, 10 per cent, with liability. These Commonwealth
  cases follow the practice in England and Wales, and in two of them where
  the substantial purpose test was applied the claim to privilege failed:
  Northern Construction Co. v. British Columbia Hydro and Power JJ
  Authority (1970) 75 W.W.R. 21 and Vernon v. Board of Education
  for the Borough of New York (1975) 9 O.R. (2d) 613. Alfred Crompton
  Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs and Excise Commissioners (No. 2)
    Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 10 of 26
                                                                                  529
     A.C.             Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))
    [1974] A.C. 405 was considered in Reg. in Right of Canada v. Hawker
A
   Siddeley Canada Ltd. (1976) 73 D.L.R. (3d) 453. [Reference was made
   to Konia v. Morley [1976] 1 N.Z.L.R. 455.]
       Weitzman Q.C. in reply. One should not go through this report line
   by line, but should look at what the person says who inspired it. There
   is confusion in the board's argument between the function of pleadings on
   the one hand and particulars on the other. One should distinguish
B between the purpose for which the report was made and the use even­
   tually made of its contents. As to the proposition that the test should be
   simple to understand and easy to apply, that is the whole question here.
   It is very difficult to say exactly where such a test as " a substantial
   purpose " draws the line. It seems as though the Law Reform Committee
   in its Sixteenth Report (Privilege in Civil Proceedings) (1967) (Cmnd.
r  3472) were recommending the dominant purpose test: see at p. 8, para.
C
    17: "wholly or mainly."
       Even if the board's historical summation of the authorities be right,
   the House in Alfred Crompton Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs
   and Excise Commissioners (No. 2) [1974] A.C. 405 regarded the matter
   as open for reconsideration.
       It is quite impossible that the board should succeed on the dominant
D purpose test, because their affidavit falls far short of it. That was
   recognised by Eveleigh L.J.
       As to the Commonwealth authorities, see Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R.
    674: the Commonwealth cases more or less follow what was said in
    Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 509 and
    Longthorn v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530.
 E     Fairness and good sense suggest that the privilege should be limited to
    those cases where it is essential that it should be granted. Where a docu­
    ment would have been produced anyway, whether there was to be litigation
   or not, that suggests that the privilege is not necessary.

        Their Lordships took time for consideration.
F
       July 12. LORD WILBERFORCE. My Lords, the appellant's husband was
   an employee of the British Railways Board. A locomotive which he was
   driving collided with another so that he was crushed against a tank wagon.
   He received injuries from which he died. The present action is brought
   under the Fatal Accidents Acts 1846-1959 and this appeal arises out of an
   interlocutory application for discovery by the board of a report called the
G " joint inquiry report," made by two officers of the board two days after
   the accident. This was resisted by the board on the ground of legal pro­
   fessional privilege. The Court of Appeal, Eveleigh L.J. and Sir David
   Cairns, Lord Denning M.R. dissenting, refused the application.
      When an accident occurs on the board's railways, there are three reports
   which are made. 1. On the day of the accident a brief report of the
JJ accident is made to the Railway Inspectorate. 2. Soon afterwards a joint
   internal report is prepared incorporating statements of witnesses. This too
   is sent to the Railway Inspectorate. Preparation of this report, it appears,
   is a matter of practice: it is not required by statute or statutory regula-
                                                                   A.C. 1980—20
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 11 of 26
    530
   Lord Wilberforce    .Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))             [1980]
   tion. 3. In due course a report is made by the Railway Inspectorate for .
   the Department of the Environment.
        The document now in question is that numbered 2. The circumstances
   in which it came to be prepared, and the basis for the claim of privilege,
   were stated in an affidavit sworn on behalf of the board by Mr. G. T.
   Hastings, assistant to the general manager of the Eastern Region. I find
   it necessary to quote the significant passages in this affidavit.
                                                                                        D
          " 3. The general manager of the Eastern Region is required (as are the
          general managers of the other railways regions) to submit returns to the
          Department of [the] Environment in respect of accidents occurring on
          or about any railway . . . 6. It has long been the practice of the board
          and its predecessors to require that returns and reports on all accidents
          occurring on the railway and joint internal departmental inquiries
         into the causes of the said accident be made by the local officers of C
         the board who would forward them to their superiors in order to
         assist in establishing the causes of such accidents. 7. Such reports
         and the statements of witnesses to such accidents are made for the
         purposes mentioned in paragraphs 3 and 6 of this affidavit and equally
         for the purpose of being submitted to the board's solicitor as material
          upon, which he can advise the board upon its legal liability and for ]-»
         the purpose of conducting on behalf of the board any proceedings
         arising out of such accidents . . . 9. It is commonly anticipated by the
         board that: (a) where an employee of the board suffers personal injury
         or death at. work or (b) where a passenger suffers loss [or] personal
         injury- or death while on or about the railway a claim for damages
         will be made against the board and proceedings will ensue if liability
         is repudiated. The present action is brought as the result of a fatal E
         accident suffered at. work by the late husband of the plaintiff and
         it was anticipated from the very outset that a claim for damages would
          almost certainly ensue.i 10. The documents in this action namely the
          reports made by the board's officers and servants and the report
          referred to in correspondence as the internal inquiry report for
          which the defendants have claimed privilege in part 2 of the first p
          schedule of their list of documents dated November 11, 1977, came
          into existence by reason of the fact that the appropriate officer, in
          this case the divisional manager at Newcastle, in accordance with long
          standing practice was required to and did so call for such reports and
           statements. One of the principal purposes for so doing was so that
         they could be passed to the board's chief solicitor to enable him to
           advise the board on its legal liability and if necessary conduct its G
           defence to these proceedings. 11. The internal inquiry report in fact
           states on the face of it that it has finally to be sent to the solicitor for
           the purpose of enabling him to advise the board."
   This last paragraph refers to the wording which appears at the head of the
   report: '
    .                                                            '                      JJ
       : : " For the information of the board's solicitor: This form is to be
           used by every person reporting an occurrence when litigation by or
    -:: against the B.R.B.: is anticipated. It as to beprovided by the person
 Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 531
                                                       Page 12 of 26
     A.C. .             Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))   Lord Wilberforce
         making it to his immediate superior officer and has finally to be sent
         to the solicitor for the purpose of enabling him to advise the B.R.B.
         in regard thereto."
     Whatever this heading may say, the affidavit makes it clear that the
     report was prepared for a dual purpose: for what may be called railway
     operation and safety purposes and for the purpose of obtaining legal
B    advice in anticipation of litigation, the first being more immediate than
     the second, but both being described as of equal rank or weight. So
     the question arises whether this is enough to support a claim of privilege,
     or whether, in order to do so, the second purpose must be the sole purpose,
     or the dominant or main purpose. If either of the latter is correct, the
     claim of privilege in this case must fail.
          My Lords, before I consider the authorities, I think it desirable to
C    attempt to discern the reason why what is (inaccurately) called legal pro­
      fessional privilege exists. It is sometimes ascribed to the exigencies of the
     adversary system of litigation under which a litigant is entitled within limits
     to refuse to disclose the nature of his case until the trial. Thus one side
     may not ask to see the proofs of the other side's witnesses ■ or the
      opponent's brief or even know what witnesses will be called: he must
D     wait until the card is played and cannot try to see it in the hand. This
      argument cannot be denied some validity even where the defendant is a
      public corporation whose duty it is, so it might be thought, while taking
      all proper steps to protect its revenues, to place all the facts before the
     public and to pay proper compensation to those it has injured. A more
     powerful argument to my mind is that everything should be done in order
      to encourage anyone who knows the facts to state them fully and candidly
E     ^-as Sir George Jessel M.R. said, to bare his breast to his lawyer: Anderson
      y. Bank of British Columbia (1876) 2 Ch.D. 644, 699. This he may not do
      unless he knows that his communication is privileged.                        <
     ■' But the preparation of a case for litigation is not the only interest
      which call for candour. In accident cases " . . . the safety of the public
     may well depend on the candour and completeness of reports made by
P     subordinates whose duty it is to draw attention to defects": Conway v.
     Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, per Lord Reid, at p. 941. This however does
     not by itself justify a claim to privilege since, as Lord Reid continues:
            " . . . no one has ever suggested that public safety has been endangered
           by the candour or completeness of such reports having been inhibited
           by the fact that they may have to be produced if the interests of the
Q    (     due administration of justice should ever require production at any
           time."                                     " " . . ' : ' ' : .'. .
          So one may deduce from this the principle that while privilege may
     be required in order to induce candour in statements made for the purposes
     of litigation it is not required in relation to statements whose purpose is
     different—for example to enable a railway to operate safety.
JJ        It is clear that the due administration of justice strongly requires dis­
     closure and production of this report: it was contemporary; it contained
     statements by witnesses on the spot; it would be not merely, relevant
     evidence, but almost certainly the best evidence as to the cause of the
Case532
     1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 13 of 26
    Lord Wilberforcc   Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))        [1980]
   accident. If one accepts that this important public interest can be over-       .
   ridden, in order that the defendant may properly prepare his case, how
   close must the connection be between the preparation of the document
   and the anticipation of litigation? On principle I would think that the
   purpose of preparing for litigation ought to be either the sole purpose
    or at least the dominant purpose of it: to carry the protection further into
    cases where that purpose was secondary or equal with another purpose
    would seem to be excessive, and unnecessary in the interest of encouraging     B
    truthful revelation. At the lowest such desirability of protection as might
    exist in such cases is not strong enough to outweigh the need for all rele­
   vant documents to be made available.
        There are numerous cases in which this kind of privilege has been con­
   sidered. A very useful review of them is to be found in the judgment
   of Havers J. in Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1
   W.L.R. 509 which I shall not repeat. It is not easy to extract a coherent
   principle from them. The two dominant authorities at the present time
   are Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and
   North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden V. London
   Electric Railway Co. (1933) 49 T.L.R. 542, both decisions of the Court
   of Appeal. These cases were taken by the majority of the Court of
   Appeal in the present case to require the granting of privilege in cases        D
   where one purpose of preparing the document(s) in question was to enable
   the defendants' case to be prepared whether or not they were to be
   used for another substantial purpose. Whether in fact they compel such a
   conclusion may be doubtful—in particular I do not understand the
   Birmingham case to be one of dual purposes at all: but it is enough that
   they have been taken so to require. What is clear is that, though loyally
   followed, they do not now enjoy rational acceptance: in Longthorn v.            ^
   British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530 the manner in which
   Diplock J. managed to escape from them, and the tenor of his judgment,
   shows him to have been unenthusiastic as to their merits. And in Alfred
   Crompton Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs and Excise Com­
   missioners (No. 2) [1974] A.C. 405 Lord Cross of Chelsea, at p. 432,
   pointedly left their correctness open, while Lord Kilbrandon stated, at         p
   p. 435, that he found the judgment of Scrutton L.J. in Ogden v. London
   Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, 543-544, "hard to accept." Only
    Viscount Dilhorne (dissenting) felt able to follow them in holding it to be
    enough if one purpose was the use by solicitors when litigation was
    anticipated.
        The whole question came to be considered by the High Court of
                                                                                   G
    Australia in 1976: Grant V. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674. This case involved
    reports which had " as one of the material purposes for their preparation "
    submission to legal advisers in the event of litigation. It was held that
    privilege could not be claimed. In the joint judgment of Stephen, Mason
    and Murphy JJ., in which the English cases I have mentioned were dis­
    cussed and analysed, it was held that " legal professional privilege " must
   be confined to documents brought into existence for the sole purpose of         JJ
    submission to legal advisers for advice or use in legal proceedings.
    Jacobs J. put the test in the form of a question, at p. 692: " . . . does
   the purpose "—in the sense of intention, the intended use—" of supplying
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 14 of 26
                                                                               533
    A.C.              Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))   Lord Wilberforce
  the material to the legal adviser account for the existence of the
^ material? " Barwick C.J. stated it in terms of " dominant" purpose.
  This is closely in line with the opinion of Lord Denning M.R. in the
  present case that the privilege extends only to material prepared
  " wholly or mainly for the purpose of preparing [the defendant's] case."
  The High Court of Australia and Lord Denning M.R. agree in refusing
  to follow Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London
B and North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden v. London
  Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, as generally understood.
       My Lords, for the reasons I have given, when discussing the case in
  principle, I too would refuse to follow those cases. It appears to me that
  unless the purpose of submission to the legal adviser in view of litigation
  is at least the dominant purpose for which the relevant document was
  prepared, the reasons which require privilege to be extended to it cannot
^ apply. On the other hand to hold that the purpose, as above, must be the
   sole purpose would, apart from difficulties of proof, in my opinion, be
   too strict a requirement, and would confine the privilege too narrowly: as
   to this I agree with Barwick C.J. in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, and
   in substance with Lord Denning M.R. While fully respecting the necessity
   for the Lords Justices to follow previous decisions of their court, I find
D myself in the result in agreement with Lord Denning's judgment. I would
   allow the appeal and order disclosure of the joint report.
        LORD SIMON OF GLAISDALE. My Lords, the appellant's late husband,
    an employee of the respondents, was killed in an accident on part of their
    railway system. In accordance with their usual practice, shared by many
    industrial and commercial undertakings in such circumstances, a report
E   was made about the accident. As so often, the report came into being
    partly for the purpose of ascertaining whether the working system was
    defective and could be improved so as to obviate such accidents, partly
    for the purpose of informing the respondents' solicitors in case of the
    threat or initiation of litigation, which, at the time when the report was
    made, was contemplated by the respondents as possible or probable.
p   The report, as is usual, contains statements by all such persons
    as could throw light on the circumstances of the accident, the majority of
    whom could be witnesses in any ensuing litigation. Litigation having in
    fact been started by the appellant against the respondents, the former has
    sought disclosure of the report to assist her in the preparation and /or
    conduct of her case. The respondents resist its disclosure, on the ground
    that it is protected by legal professional privilege.
G       The situation being far from unusual, the issue has quite frequently
    been before the courts. The English authorities were meticulously reviewed
    by Havers J. in Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1
    W.L.R. 509. His conclusion was that he was bound by what had been
    said by the majority of the Court of Appeal in Birmingham and Midland
    Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and North Western Railway Co.
H    [1913] 3 K.B. 850, and by the ensuing Court of Appeal decisions in Ankin
    v. London and North Eastern Railway Co. [1930] 1 K.B. 527 and Ogden
    v. London Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542. The law thus laid
    down was that such a report need not be disclosed if one of its purposes
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 15 of 26
    §34
    J-?1* Simon      Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))      [1980]
    of Glaisdale         "
    (even though subsidiary) was to inform the solicitor with a view to »
    litigation contemplated as possible or probable. That this was the correct
    distillation of the prevailing case law was recognised by Diplock J. in
    Longthorn V. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530; though
    he deftly avoided its application. It was also recognised as the prevailing
    English law, and applied, by various Canadian courts: see Northern
    Construction Co. v. British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority (1970)
    75 W.W.R. 21; Vernon v. Board of Education for the Borough of North B
    York (1975) 9 O.R.(2d) 613; Reg. in Right of Canada v. Hawker Siddeley
    'Canada Ltd, (1976) 73 D.L.R. (3d) 453. In New Zealand, too, the
   Court of Appeal held that to attract privilege its use in reasonably
   apprehended litigation need not be the only purpose of the document
   (though it must be an appreciable purpose): Konia v. Morley [1976] 1
   N.Z.L.R. 455. Ankin V. London and North Eastern Railway Co. [1930] r
    1 K.B. 527 and Ogden v. London Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542 ^
   being English Court of Appeal decisions, the law declared there was
   binding on, and applied by the majority of, the Court of Appeal in the
   instant case.
        The earlier authorities are, however, by no means so categorical; and
   the views of Hamilton LJ. in Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus
   Co. Ltd. v. London and North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 D
   were preferred, though not as a matter of decision, by the majority of the
   members of the Appellate Committee in Alfred Crompton Amusement
   Machines Ltd. V. Customs and Excise Commissioners (No. 2) [1974]
   A.C. 405; and it was the Birmingham case which was the foundation of
   Ankin and Ogden. In Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, the majority of
   the High Court in Australia took those earlier authorities into account p
   and also the doubt that had been thrown on the more recent ones in
   Alfred Crompton Amusement Machines Ltd. V. Customs and Excise
   Commissioners (No. 2); and, weighing various other considerations, held
   that to attract privilege the use of the document for reasonably anticipated
   litigation must be its sole purpose. Barwick C.J., at p. 677, " Having
   considered the decisions, the writings and the various aspects of the
   public interest which claim attention," thought that use of the document F
   either for legal advice or to be used in reasonably apprehended litigation
   had to be the dominant purpose in order to attract privilege from dis­
   closure. The Law Reform Committee, in its Sixteenth Report (Privilege
   in Civil Proceedings) (1967) (Cmnd. 3472) thought that, under the sub­
   sisting English law, the test of privilege was that the document should
   be " wholly or mainly" for the purpose of preparing one's case in _,
   litigation then pending or contemplated (para. 17); and, although I do not
    myself consider that that was the prevailing law (nor, indeed, I think, did
   Lord Denning M.R. in the instant case, for all that he favoured it as the
   test), the views of such an eminent committee are entitled to great
    respect.
         The upshot of this cursory conspectus of the authorities is that your
   Lordships are, in my view, free to consider the issue on grounds of
   principle and convenience, unembarrassed by previous authority, which,
   rather, constitutes diverse springboards. The appellant argues that the
 Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 16 of 26
                                                                                535'
   A.C.               Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.) )       Lord Simon!
                                                       V    V
                                             *                  "      of   QIajsda|e-
A correct test is that preferred by the majority of the High Court in-
  Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, namely the sole purpose; or, alterna­
  tively, that preferred by Barwick C.J. in that case, namely the dominant
  purpose. The respondents argue that Ankin v. London and North
  Eastern Railway Co. [1930] 1 K.B. 527 and Ogdenv. London Electric
  Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, were correctly decided, and that it is
  sufficient to attract privilege from disclosure if one of the purposes
B (however subsidiary) is with a view to apprehended litigation.
      The issue exemplifies a situation which frequently causes difficulties—
  where the forensic situation is covered by two valid legal principles which
  point each to a different forensic conclusion. Here, indeed, both principles
  subserve the same legal end—the administration of justice. The first
  principle is that the relevant rules of law should be applied to the
Q whole body of relevant evidence—in other words, in principle all relevant
  evidence should be adduced to the court. The report in question in this
  appeal undoubtedly contains information relevant to the matters in issue
  in the litigation here. The first principle thus indicates that it should be
  disclosed, so that the appellant may make use of it if she wishes.
       The second general principle arises out of the adversary (in contradic-
   tion to the inquisitorial) system of administration of justice. Society
   provides an objective code of law and courts where civil contentions
   can be decided. But it contents itself with so providing a forum and a
   code (and nowadays some finance for those who could not otherwise
   get justice). Having done so much, society considers that it can safely
   leave each party to bring forward the evidence and argument to establish
   his/her case, detaching the judge from the hurly-burly of contestation
E and so enabling him to view the rival contentions dispassionately. It is
   true that this does not in itself give rise to legal professional privilege.
   Sir Thomas More, before his time for judicial and administrative
   responsibility, had a different system for the Utopians:             .
       ' " For they thinke it most mete, that euery man shuld pleade his owne
         matter, and tell the same tale before the iudge, that he'would'tel to
F        his man of lawe. So shall there be lesse circumstaunce of wordes,
         and the trwth shal soner cum to light; whiles the • iudge with a
         discrete judgement doth waye the wordes of hyni whom no lawier
         hath instruct with deceit; and whiles he helpeth and beareth out
         simple wittes agaynst the false and malicious circumuertions "of craftie'
         chyldren." (Utopia, 1516, tr. Ralph Robinson, 1551, Bk. 2, [ch. 7].)
G This is all very fine; but that great moralist and master of. common
   sense, Dr. Johnson, saw. the snag. Quite apart, from the descent of the
   judge into the arena:
        "As if rarely happens that a man is fit to plead his own'cause,
        lawyers are a class of the community, who, by study and experience,
        have acquired the art and power of arranging evidence, and- of
JJ      applying to the points at issue what the law has settled. A lawyer
        is to do for his client all that his client might fairly do for himself;
       if he could." (Boswell, Life of Johnson, ed. Birkbeck Hill (1950),
        vol. v, 26),
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 17 of 26
    536;
    of°Giiis°ai°e     Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))           [1980]
   So the adversary system calls for legal representation if it is to operate        .
    with such justice as is vouchsafed to humankind.
     ., This system of adversary forensic procedure with legal professional
   advice and, representation demands that communications between lawyer
   and client should be confidential, since the lawyer is for the purpose of
   litigation merely the client's alter ego. So too material which is to go
   into the lawyer's (i.e. the client's) brief or file for litigation. This is the
   basis for the privilege against disclosure of material collected by or on         B
   behalf of a client for the use of his lawyer in pending or anticipated
   litigation: see Cotton L.J. in Southwark and Vauxhall Water Co. v.
   Quick (1878) 3 Q.B.D. 315, 321-322; D. v. National Society for the
   Prevention of Cruelty to Children [1978] A.C. 171, 231; Sixteenth
   Report of the Law Reform Committee, paras. 17-21. Apart from
   the limited exception of some expert evidence, for which the Rules
   of the Supreme Court make express provision (Ord. 38, r. 37), a
   party in civil litigation is not entitled to see the adversary's proofs of
   what his witnesses will say at the trial; there has been no suggestion
   that he should be so entitled; and any such development would require
   the most careful consideration based on widespread consultation. The
   report in question in this appeal undoubtedly contains material collected
   by or on behalf of the respondents for the use of their solicitors in anti-       D
   cipated litigation. The second principle thus indicates that the respon­
   dents are entitled to claim that it is confidential as between themselves
   and their solicitors and that they are not bound to disclose it.
        Historically, the second principle—that a litigant must bring forward
   his own evidence to support his case, and cannot call on his adversary
   to make or aid it—was fundamental to the outlook of the courts of
   common law. The first principle—that the opponent might be compelled              "
   to disclose relevant evidence in his possession—was the doctrine of the
   Chancery, a court whose conscience would be affronted by forensic success
   contrary to justice obtained merely through the silent non-cooperation
   of the defendant (see Y.B. 9 Ed. IV, Trin. 9), and which therefore had
   some inclination to limited inquisitorial procedures. The conflict between
   the Chancery and the courts of common law was, here as elsewhere,                 p
    ultimately resolved by compromise and accommodation.
        I can see no intrinsic reason why the one principle rather than the
    other should prevail in a situation where they are counter-indicative.
    Neither is absolute: both' are subject to numerous exceptions. For
    example, if a document protected by legal professional privilege (or
    secondary evidence of it) has been obtained by the opposite party
    independently—even through the default of the legal adviser—even by               "
    dishonesty—either will probably be admissible: Phipson on Evidence,
    12th ed. (1976), p. 241, para. 584; Sixteenth Report of the Law Reform
    Committee, para. 31. The numerous exceptions to the principle that all
    relevant evidence should be disclosed arise partly from historical reasons
    (the tensions between the courts of common law, where questions of
    fact were tried, and the Court of Chancery, where the remedy of discovery        JJ
    was developed), partly from considerations of justice, partly from wider
    social considerations: see D. v. National Society for the Prevention of
    Cruelty to Children [1978] A.C. 171, at pp. 231 et seq. Thus the
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 18 of 26
                                                                            537
                                                                     L
    A.C.             Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))      „ord Simon
                                                                     of Glaisdale
. historical exclusion of hearsay evidence, " the best evidence " rule and
  " without prejudice" communications are examples of exceptions to
  the principle of adduction of all relevant evidence. So too is the rule
  excluding, in general, evidence going merely to the discredit of a witness,
  even though the credibility of the witness may be decisive of the case.
  But the exception which most nearly touches the issue facing your
  Lordships was cogently invoked in this very connection by James L.J.
B in Anderson v. Bank of British Columbia, 2 Ch.D. 644, 656:
       " . . . as you have no right to see your adversary's brief, you have
       no right to see that which comes into existence merely as the materials
       for the brief."
  The adversary's brief will contain much relevant material; nevertheless,
Q you cannot see it because that would be inconsistent with the adversary
  forensic process based on legal representation. I would, though, draw
  attention to the word " merely " in James L.J.'s dictum.
      There is, then, no a priori reason why the one general principle should
  yield to the other. But in my judgment each party's main contention
  would virtually result in the total exclusion of the principle relied on by
  the other. The rule in Ogden in effect means that reports such as that
D in the instant case will always be excluded, because it is unlikely that
  there is not in such circumstances even the subsidiary purpose of inform­
  ing the legal advisers. On the other hand, to enjoin that privilege can
  only be claimed if the information of legal advisers is the sole purpose
  of the report will in effect mean that such reports must always be dis­
  closed, because it is unlikely that in such circumstances there will not be
g even the subsidiary purpose of ascertaining whether the system of work
  can be improved. Indeed, in this type of report causation and fault can
  hardly be kept apart.
      Your Lordships will therefore, I apprehend, be seeking some inter­
  mediate line which will allow each of the two general principles scope
  in its proper sphere. Various intermediate formulae as a basis for
  the privilege have been canvassed in argument before your Lordships,
  most based on some authority—the obtaining of legal advice was " an
  appreciable purpose"; " a substantial purpose"; " the substantial
  purpose"; it was "wholly or mainly" for that purpose; that was its
  " dominant" purpose; that was its " primary " purpose.
      Some of these are in my view too vague. Some give little or no
  scope to the principle of open litigation with the minimum exclusion of
G relevant evidence. The one that appeals most to me is " dominant"
  purpose, as it did to Barwick C.J. in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674.
  It allows scope to each of the governing principles. It seems to me less
  quantitative than " mainly "; and I think it would be easier to apply—
  the law is already cognisant of the concept of a dominant purpose—in
  the law of conspiracy, for example (see Crofter Hand Woven Harris
H Tweed Co. Ltd. v. Veitch [1942] A.C. 435, especially at pp. 445
  (Viscount Simon L.C.), 452 (Viscount Maugham)), and in the law as to
  fraudulent preference in bankruptcy (see Halsbury's Laws of England,
  4th ed., vol. 3 (1973), pp. 496, 499, paras. 908, 913).
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 19 of 26
   538
   I
    fi1'^,50?        Waugh v. British Railways Board (HX.(E.))         [1980]
   of Glaisdale
      I would therefore overrule Ankih v. London and North Eastern *
   Railway Co. [1930] 1 K.B. 527 and Ogden v. London Electric Railway
   Co., 49 T.L.R. 542.
      My noble and learned friend on the Woolsack has already cited the
   crucial passages from the affidavit of Mr. Hastings. These show that
   the procuring of legal advice or preparation for litigation was not the
   dominant purpose of the report. It follows that the claim for legal
   professional privilege fails, and the report must be disclosed.         B
      Accordingly, I would allow the appeal.
        LORD EDMUND-DAVIES. My Lords, the circumstances of the fatal
   accident on May 4, 1976, giving rise to this litigation have already been
   related by my noble and learned friend Lord Wilberforce. A copy of
   the short report sent the same day by the respondent board to the c
   Ministry of Transport in accordance with section 6 of the Regulation of
   Railways Act 1871 has been furnished to the appellant's solicitors. They
   have also been supplied with a copy of the report of October 29, 1976,
   prepared by the Railway Inspectorate of the Department of Transport.
   But what has not been disclosed is the May 6, 1976, report based upon
   a joint internal inquiry conducted by the board's personnel. The
   importance to the appellant of such a report, made only two days after ^
   the accident and when the memory of witnesses were fresh, is manifest.
   But from the outset disclosure of its contents has been resisted. In their
   list of documents the board claimed that they were
         " . . . documents which came into existence and were made by the
         defendants or their officers or servants after this litigation was in
         contemplation and in view of such litigation for the purpose of E
         obtaining for and furnishing to the solicitor of the defendants
         evidence and information as to the evidence which will be obtained
         or otherwise for the use of the said solicitor to enable him to
         conduct the defence in this action or to advise the defendants."
        But that the reports referred to were not made solely for litigation
   purposes emerged when the board, being nevertheless pressed for dis-
   closure of the internal inquiry report, responded by an affidavit sworn
   by Mr. Hastings, assistant to the general manager of their Eastern
   Region. So important is it that I must quote from it at some length:
   ;. " 6 . It has long been.the practice of the board and its predecessors
   '::, to require that returns and reports on all accidents occurring on the
         railway and joint internal departmental inquiries into the causes of *■*
   .'.". the said accident be.made by the local officers of the board who
         would forward them to their superiors in order to assist in establish­
         ing the causes of such accidents. 7. Such reports and the statements
         of witnesses to such accidents are made for the purposes mentioned
         in paragraphs 3 and 6 of this affidavit and equally for the purpose
         of being submitted to the board's solicitor as material upon which JJ
         he can advise the board upon its legal liability and for the purpose
       . of conducting on behalf of the board any proceedings arising out of
         such accidents. 8. This system of reporting accidents and making
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 20 of 26
                                                                              539
    A.C.           Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))   Lord Edmund-Davies
         joint internal departmental inquiries into the causes of the said,
^        accidents and laying down the necessary instructions to the relevant
         staff to do so for the purposes aforesaid continues today. '9. It-is
         commonly anticipated by the board that: (a) where an employee of
         the board suffers personal injury or death at work or.(b) where a
         passenger suffers loss [or] personal, injury or, death while on or
         about the railway a claim for damages will be made against the
B        board and proceedings will ensue if liability is repudiated. The
       ■ present action is brought as the result of a fatal accident suffered at
         work by the late husband of the plaintiff and it was anticipated from
         the very outset that a claim for damages would almost certainly
         ensue. 10. The documents in this action namely the reports made
         by the board's officers and servants and the report referred to in
         correspondence as the infernal inquiry report for which the defendants
^        have claimed privilege in part 2 of the first schedule of their list of
         documents dated November 11, 1977, came into existence by reason
         of the fact that the appropriate officer, in this case the divisional
         manager at Newcastle, in accordance with long standing practice
         was required to and did so call for such reports and statements.
         One of the principal purposes for so doing was so that they could
D        be passed to the board's chief solicitor to enable him to advise the
         board on its legal liability and if necessary conduct its defence to
          these proceedings. 11. The internal inquiry report in fact states on
          the face of it that' it has finally to be sent to the solicitor for the
          purpose of enabling him to advise the board."
    In the light of such affidavit, counsel for the appellant accepts that he
E   cannot challenge that litigation arising out of the fatal accident was
    anticipated when the report of May 6, 1976, was prepared: see Jones
    v. Monte Video Gas Co. (1880) 5 Q.B.D. 556. The fact that the report
    states on its face that it has finally to be sent to the solicitor for the
    purpose of enabling him to advise the board cannot, however, be deter-"
    minative of the outcome of this appeal, for, as the Lord President (Lord
F   Strathclyde) said in Whitehill V. Glasgow Corporation, 1915 S.C. 1015,
    1017—quoted with approval by Lord Kilbrandon in Alfred Crompton
    Amusement Machines Ltd. V. Customs and Excise Commissioners (No. 2)
    [1974] A.C. 405, 435^*36:
         " These words cannot alter the character of the report which is.made
         by the employee for the purpose of informing his employers of the
Q        accident, and made at the time."
      My Lords, in the light of their own affidavit, are the board. entitled
  to resist disclosure? There is a very large body of case law on the topic
  of legal professional privilege, much of which was reviewed in Seabrook
  v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 509 by Havers J.,
  who quoted extensively from earlier decisions. It would not, I think, be
H helpful were I to make a further attempt to do that which that learned
  judge so admirably accomplished. Instead, I propose to consider first
  whether Eveleigh L.J. and Sir David Cairns in the present case were
  right in holding that the earlier Court of Appeal decisions in Birmingham
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 21 of 26
   540
   Lord Edmund-Davies    Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))     [1980]
   and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. V. London and North Western .
   Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden v. London Electric Railway A
   Co., 49 T.L.R. 542 compelled them to dismiss the plaintiff's appeal from
   the decision of Donaldson J. refusing disclosure.
       In the Birmingham case Buckley L.J. (with whom Vaughan Williams
   L.J. concurred) said, at p. 856:
        "It is not I think necessary that the affidavit should state that the
        information was obtained solely or merely or primarily for the B
        solicitor, if it was obtained for the solicitor, in the sense of being
        procured as materials upon which professional advice should be
        taken in proceedings pending, or threatened, or anticipated."
   That passage was cited with approval in Ogden v. London Electric
   Railway Co., the facts of which were strikingly similar to those of the
   present case, Scrutton L.J. saying, at pp. 543-544, with reference to a C
   non-privileged purpose for which accident reports had been obtained:
       "It may be that that is part of the purpose of making the reports,
       but there is also the substantial purpose that if a writ is issued these
       are the materials that will be wanted by the solicitor conducting the
       litigation, and they are obtained for that purpose, among others, and
       as appears from the form at which we look . . . the reports are made
       on a form headed: ' For the information of the company's solicitors
       only,' which is a very important heading to have, because if you
       know that you are making a confidential report to the solicitor you
       are much more likely to state accurately what has happened than if
       you are afraid that somebody presently seeing that report may take
       proceedings against you in respect of the statements that you have ^
       made, which may be defamatory." (Italics added.)
   I have already indicated my inability (in concurrence with Lord Denning
   M.R. in the present case) to have regard to such a heading. Nevertheless,
   Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and
   North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden v. London „
   Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, are authorities for the proposition
   that reports such as that compiled in the instant case two days after the
   fatal accident are privileged even though they were obtained for other
   purposes as well as to meet impending or anticipated litigation. And
   they led the majority of the Court of Appeal to hold here that the
   internal inquiry report need not be disclosed, Eveleigh L.J. going to the
   length of saying:                                                             G
        " . . . I believe that in so far as this court is concerned it has been
        firmly established that the documents in question in the present case
        are privileged. They were obtained for the purpose of being sent to
        the solicitors to serve in preparing the defendant's case for litigation
        which was anticipated. And they would also be used for another
        very substantial and even more important purpose. On the authori- JJ
        ties I do not believe that this entitles me to say that the privilege
        which otherwise would have attached [to them] has been removed."
        (Italics added.)
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 22 of 26
                                                                              541
    A.C.           Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))   Lord Edmund-Davics
    But Lord Denning M.R., in the course of his dissenting judgment, refused
    to be bound by such earlier Court of Appeal decisions. Instead, he
    adverted to the view expressed in the Sixteenth Report of the Law
    Reform Committee, para. 17, that
        " . . . it is, we think, essential . . . that [a party] should be entitled
        to insist upon there being withheld from the court any material
        which came into existence . . . wholly or mainly for the purpose.of
        preparing his case in litigation then pending or contemplated by him."
  Lord Denning M.R. added:
      " We should not extend it further. If material comes into being for
      a dual purpose—one to find out the cause of the accident—the other
      to furnish information to the solicitor—it should be disclosed,
C     because it is not then ' wholly or mainly' for litigation. On this
      basis all the reports and inquiries into accidents—which are made
      shordy after the accident—should be disclosed on discovery and
      made available in evidence at the trial."
    Applying that test to the facts of this case, Lord Denning M.R. said:
        " The main purpose of this inquiry and report was to ascertain the
        cause of the accident and to prevent further accidents or similar
        occurrences. Its nearby purpose was to put before the departmental
        inspectorate. Its far-off purpose was to put before the solicitors of
        the board, should a claim be made and litigation ensue."
        My Lords, it will later emerge how closely I am at one with Lord
 E Denning M.R. in this matter. I must, however, say that I am in respectful
    agreement with the view adopted by Eveleigh L.J. and Sir David Cairns
    that Birmingham and Midland Motor Omnibus Co. Ltd. v. London and
    North Western Railway Co. [1913] 3 K.B. 850 and Ogden V. London
    Electric Railway Co., 49 T.L.R. 542, were binding upon the Court of
   Appeal and that none of the many other cases cited—such as Jones v.
   Great Central Railway Co. [1910] A.C. 4, Alfred Crompton Amusement
F Machines Ltd. v. Customs and Excise Commissioners (No. 2) [1974]
   A.C. 405, Seabrook v. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 509
   and Longthorn V. British Transport Commission [1959] 1 W.L.R. 530—
   enabled them to escape from that thraldom. In these circumstances, I
   regard it as fortunate for justice that an appeal has reached this House,
   for in my judgment a grievous wrong might have been done had Master
Q Bickford Smith's original order in favour of disclosure not been finally
   upheld.
       It is for the party refusing disclosure to establish his right to refuse.
   It may well be that in some cases where that right has in the past been
   upheld the courts have failed to keep clear the distinction between (a)
   communications between client and legal adviser, and (b) communications
   between the client and third parties, made (as the Law Reform Committee
H
   put it)
         " . . . for the purpose of obtaining information to be submitted to the
         client's professional legal advisers for the purpose of obtaining advice
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 23 of 26
   542
   Lord Edmund-Davies     Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))       [1980]
         upon pending 'or contemplated litigation."           (Sixteenth Report,     .
                                                                                     A
         para. 17 (c).)
   In cases falling within (a), privilege from disclosure attaches to com­
   munications for the purpose of obtaining legal advice and it is immaterial
   whether or not the possibility of litigation were even contemplated,
   Kindersley V.-C. saying in Lawrence v. Campbell (1859) 4 Drew. 485,
   490:                                                                              fi
        " . . . it is not now necessary as it formerly was for the purpose of
        obtaining production that the communications should be made either
        during or relating to an actual or even to an expected litigation. It
        is sufficient if they pass as professional communications in a
        professional capacity."
   But in cases falling within (b) the position is quite otherwise. Litigation,      C
   apprehended or actual, is its hallmark. Referring to " the rule which
   protects confidential communications from discovery as regards the other
   side," Sir George Jessel M.R. said in Anderson v. Bank of British
   Columbia, 2 Ch.D. 644, 649:
        "The object and meaning of the rule is this: that as, by reason of
        the complexity and difficulty of our law, litigation can only be             D
        properly conducted by professional men, it is absolutely necessary
        that a man, in order to prosecute his rights or to defend himself
        from an improper claim, should have recourse to the assistance of
        professional lawyers, and it being so absolutely necessary, it is equally
        necessary,. to use a vulgar phrase, that he should be able to make a
        clean breast of it to the gentleman whom he consults with a view             ._
        to the prosecution of his claim, or the substantiating his defence
        against the claim of others; that he should be able to place un­
        restricted and unbounded confidence in the professional agent, and
        that the communications he so makes to him should be kept secret,
        unless with his consent (for it is his privilege, and not the privilege
        of the confidential agent), that he should be enabled properly to
        conduct his litigation. That is the meaning of the rule."                [   F
   And in the Court of Appeal James L.J. summed up the position, at
   p. 656, by speaking succinctly of
        " . . . an intelligible principle, that as you have no right to see your
        adversary's brief, you have no right to see that which comes into
        existence merely as the materials for the brief."                        Q
      Preparation with a view to litigation—pending or anticipated—being
   thus the essential purpose which protects a communication from disclosure
   in such cases as the present, what in the last resort is the touchstone of
   the privilege? Is it sufficient that the prospect of litigation be merely
   one of the several purposes leading to the communication coming into
   being? And is that sufficient (as Eveleigh L.J. in the present case held) JJ
   despite the fact that there is also " another . . . and even more important
   purpose " ? Is it enough that the prospect of litigation is a substantial
   purpose, though there may be others equally substantial? Is an
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 24 of 26
                                                                                   543
    X.C.               Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E.))   Lord Edmund-Davies
     appreciable'purpose sufficient? Or does it have to be the main purpose?
     Or one of its main purposes (as in Ogden v. London Electric Railway
     Co., 49 T.L.R. 542)? Ought your Lordships to declare that privilege
     attaches only to material which (in the words of Lord Denning M.R.)
     "comes within the words 'wholly or mainly' for the purpose of
     litigation " ? Or should this House adopt the majority decision of the
     High Court of Australia in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, that legal
B    professional privilege must be confined to documents brought into
     existence for the sole purpose of submission to legal advisers for advice
     or for use in legal proceedings?
          An affirmative answer to each of the foregoing questions can be
     supported by one or more of the many reported decisions. And so can
     a negative answer. But no decision is binding upon this House, and
„    your Lordships are accordingly in the fortunate position of being free to
     choose and declare what is the proper test. And in my judgment we
     should start from the basis that the public interest is, on balance, best
     served by rigidly confining within narrow limits the cases where material
     relevant to litigation may be lawfully withheld. Justice is better served
     by candour than by suppression. For, as it was put in the Grant v.,
     Downs majority judgment, at p. 686: " . . . the privilege . . . detracts
D    from the fairness of the trial by denying a party access to relevant
     documents or at least subjecting him to surprise."
          Adopting that approach, I would certainly deny a claim to privilege
     when litigation was merely one of several purposes of equal or similar
     importance intended to be served by the material sought to be withheld
     from disclosure, and a fortiori where it was merely a minor purpose.
p   On the other hand, I consider that it would be going too far to adopt
     the " sole purpose" test applied by the majority in Grant v. Downs,
    which has been adopted in no United Kingdom decision nor, as far as
    we are aware, elsewhere in the Commonwealth. Its. adoption would
    deny privilege even to material whose outstanding purpose is to serve
    litigation, simply because another and very minor purpose was also being
„   served. But, inasmuch as the only basis of the claim to privilege in such
    cases as the present one is that the material in question was brought:
    into existence for use' in legal proceedings, it is surely right to insist
    that, before the claim is conceded or upheld, such a purpose must be
    shown to have played a paramount part. Which phrase or epithet should
    be selected to designate this is,a matter of individual judgment. Lord
P   Denning M.R., as we have seen, favoured adoption of the phrase employed
    in the Law Reform Committee's Sixteenth Report, viz., " material which.
    came into existence . . . wholly or mainly " for the purpose of litigation
    (para. 17). " Wholly " I personally would reject for the same reason as
    I dislike "solely," but "mainly" is nearer what I regard as the prefer­
    able test. Even so, it lacks the element of. clear paramouhtcy which
„   should, as I think, be the touchstone. After considerable deliberation, I
    have finally come down in favour of the test propounded by. Barwick
    C.J. in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, in the following words, at.
    p. 6 7 7 :   ...                                      '   ■' ■ -                 >
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 25 of 26
   544
   Lord Edmund-Davies     Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E))      [1980]
       "Having considered the decisions, the writings and the various
       aspects of the public interest which claim attention, I have come to
       the conclusion that the court should state the relevant principle as
   '.. follows: a document which was produced or brought into existence
       either with the dominant purpose of its author, or of the person or
       authority under whose direction, whether particular or general, it
       was produced or brought into existence, of using it or its contents
       in order to obtain legal advice or to conduct or aid in the conduct B
       of litigation, at the time of its production in reasonable prospect,
       should be privileged and excluded from inspection." (Italics added.)
       Dominant purpose, then, in my judgment, should now be declared by
   this House to be the touchstone. It is less stringent a test than " sole "
   purpose, for, as Barwick C.J. added, 135 C.L.R. 674, 677:
        " . . . the fact that the person . . . had in mind other uses of the C
        document will not preclude that document being accorded privilege,
        if it were produced with the requisite dominant purpose."
       Applying such test to the facts of the present case, we have already
   seen that privilege was claimed in Mr. Hastings's affidavit on several
   grounds. Thus, the report of May 6, 1976, was produced in accordance
   with the long-standing practice of the board regarding " accidents occur­
   ring on or about any railway . . . in order to assist in establishing the
   causes of such accidents," and this whether or not (so your Lordships
   were informed) any personal injuries were sustained and even where
   there was no prospect of litigation ensuing. This particular report was
   called for in accordance with such practice and:
        "One of the principal purposes for so doing was so that they could E
        be passed to the board's chief solicitor to enable him to advise the
        board on its legal liability and if necessary conduct its defence to
        these proceedings." (Italics added.)
   Were the " sole purpose " test adopted and applied, on the board's own
   showing their claim to privilege must fail. Then what of the " dominant p
   purpose " test which I favour? Dominance again is not claimed by the
   board, but merely that use in litigation was " one of the principal
   purposes." Such moderation is only to be expected in the face of a
   claim arising out of a fatal accident. Indeed, the claims of humanity
   must surely make the dominant purpose of any report upon an accident
   (particularly where personal injuries have been sustained) that of discover­
   ing what happened and why it happened, so that measures to prevent G
   its recurrence could be discussed and, if possible, devised. And, although
   Barwick C.J. in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674, observed, at p. 677, that
         " . . . the circumstance that the document is a ' routine document'
         will not be definitive. The dominant purpose of its production may
         none the less qualify it for professional privilege,"
                                                                                  H
   the test of dominance will, as I think, be difficult to satisfy when inquiries
   are instituted and reports produced automatically whenever any mishap
   occurs, whatever its nature, its gravity, or even its triviality,
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-1 Filed 03/14/16 Page 26 of 26
                                                                              545
    A.C.            Waugh v. British Railways Board (H.L.(E))   Lord Edmund-Davies
        My Lords, if, as I hold, "dominant purpose" be the right test of
    privilege from disclosure, it follows that the board's claim to privilege
    must be disallowed, and the same applies if the " sole purpose " test be
    applied. I would therefore allow this appeal and restore the order of
    Master Bickford Smith in favour of disclosure.

      LORD RUSSELL OF KILLOWEN. My Lords, it has already been
B demonstrated by my noble and learned friend Lord Wilberforce that if,
  in order to attract privilege from its production, it is necessary that the
  joint internal report should owe its genesis to either the sole or the
  dominant purpose that it should be used for the purpose of obtaining
  legal advice in possible or probable litigation, the evidence in this case
  falls short of both those standards. At the conclusion of the arguments
_ in this appeal I was minded, while agreeing that anything less than the
  standard of the dominant purpose would not suffice to support a claim
  for privilege from production, to prefer the higher standard of the sole
  purpose, in line with as I understand them the judgments of the majority
  in the High Court of Australia in Grant v. Downs, 135 C.L.R. 674. It
  appeared to me that such a standard had the merit of greater simplicity
  in a decision on a claim for privilege from production, as being a line
D easier to draw and to apply to the facts of a particular case. However
  on reflection I am persuaded that the standard of sole purpose would be
  in most, if not all, cases impossible to attain, and that to impose it would
  tilt the balance of policy in this field too sharply against the possible
   defendant. Moreover to select the standard of dominant purpose is not
   to impose a definition too difficult of measurement. It is to be met
  with in other fields of the law, of which I need instance only the question
   in bankruptcy law whether there has been a fraudulent preference of a
   creditor.
       In summary, therefore, my Lords, I am in agreement with the speech
   of my noble and learned friend Lord Wilberforce, and would allow this
   appeal and order the production to the plaintiff of the joint internal
   report.
F
       LORD KEITH OF KINKEL. My Lords, I have had the advantage of
   reading in draft the speech of my noble and learned friend Lord
   Wilberforce. I agree with it, and accordingly I too would allow the
   appeal.
                                                     Appeal allowed with costs.
G
           Solicitors: Robin Thompson & Partners; Evan Harding.


                                                                         M. G.


H
