                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                          SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

--------------------------------------------------X




                                              ......
                                              .........................................
VIRGINIA L. GIUFFRE,

        Plaintiff,
v.

GHISLAINE MAXWELL,                                                                        15-cv-07433-RWS

        Defendant.


--------------------------------------------------X


                                              ANSWER

        Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell, through her attorneys Haddon, Morgan & Foreman, P.C.,

answers the Complaint as follows:


                                            Introduction
        1.      Ghislaine Maxwell did not participate in, facilitate, manage or otherwise conspire

to commit sex trafficking as alleged by Plaintiff Virginia Roberts Giuffre (“Giuffre”). Giuffre’s

unsubstantiated allegations concerning Ms. Maxwell are false. Giuffre’s fantastical claims,

contained in news stories and press-releases masquerading as legal pleadings over the last five

years have been well-crafted with the assistance of high-priced attorneys to facilitate Giuffre’s

media exposure, to enhance her marketability, to extract financial gain for herself and her family,

and to promote her sham non-profit, Victims Refuse Silence, Inc.

        2.      No law enforcement agency pursued any criminal charges against Ms. Maxwell,

even after both federal and state investigators fully scrutinized Ms. Maxwell’s one-time


                                                                                    1
employer, Jeffrey Epstein, who was jailed for soliciting underage prostitution. No court or jury

has ever determined Ms. Maxwell responsible for any criminal conduct against Giuffre or

anyone else. No civil complaint has ever been lodged against Ms. Maxwell for sexual

misconduct nor abuse nor has she settled privately any private claims for such. Indeed, no other

person has ever made any claim of any sort against Ms. Maxwell.

       3.      Rather, Giuffre fabricated a story of abuse at the hands of Ms. Maxwell in

exchange for hundreds of thousands of dollars from British tabloids with a motive for selling

papers and advertisements and without regard for truth, veracity or substantiation. The more

time that passes and the more potential for monetary gain she and her attorneys perceive, the

more Giuffre’s story, like Pinocchio’s nose, continues to grow without limitation: more and

more famous people, more lurid accounts of tawdry sexual encounters, and more exploitive

circumstances. Giuffre’s stories have proven wildly contradictory and, even by her own words,

have been definitively proven untrue.

       4.      Giuffre published her false allegations and accusations about Ms. Maxwell in

tabloids and in media interviews and then in press-releases disguised as legal pleadings which

she shared with the press. Faced with unrelenting negative press and harassment by the media in

the United Kingdom spurred by Giuffre’s false claims, Ms. Maxwell was obligated by British

law to set the record straight and to defend herself by issuing a denial of Giuffre’s claims about

her and pointing out that her more fantastical stories contained obvious lies.

       5.      Giuffre filed this defamation action against Ms. Maxwell for financial and media

gain and for her 15 minutes of fame. Ms. Maxwell submits this Answer to Giuffre’s

unsubstantiated Complaint in order to seek vindication from Giuffre’s vicious lies and improper

abuse of this country’s judicial system.


                                                 2
                                  NATURE OF THE ACTION1

       1.      Ms. Maxwell denies the factual allegations and legal conclusions contained in

Paragraph 1.


                                  JURISDICTION AND VENUE
       2.      Paragraph 2 contains legal conclusions for which no response is required. To the

extent the Court determines a response is required, Ms. Maxwell denies knowledge or

information sufficient to form a belief as the allegations in paragraph 2.

       3.      Ms. Maxwell admits the allegations concerning her residency. Ms. Maxwell is

without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to Plaintiff’s residency. Ms.

Maxwell denies that the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000. The remaining allegations are

legal conclusions for which no response is required. To the extent the Court determines a

response is required, Ms. Maxwell denies knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as

the allegations in paragraph 3.

       4.      Ms. Maxwell admits the allegations concerning her residency and denies the

remaining allegations in Paragraph 4.

       5.      Paragraph 5 contains legal conclusions for which no response is required. To the

extent the Court determines a response is required, Ms. Maxwell denies knowledge or

information sufficient to form a belief as the allegations in paragraph 5.




1
  Because Plaintiff’s Complaint repeats paragraph numbers throughout, this Answer tracks the
headings and paragraph numbers contained therein to facilitate cross-reference between the two
documents.
                                                 3
                                             PARTIES
       6.       Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

Plaintiff’s residency.

       7.       Ms. Maxwell admits that she is not a citizen of the state of Colorado and admits

that she was domiciled in the Southern District of New York at the time this action commenced.


                                FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
       8.       Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 8.

       9.       Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 9.

       10.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 10.

       11.      Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 11.

       12.      Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 12.

       13.      Ms. Maxwell denies that she was a co-conspirator of Epstein and is without

knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the remaining allegations contained in

Paragraph 13.

       14.      Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 14.

       15.      Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 15.

       16.      Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 16.




                                                 4
       17.     Ms. Maxwell admits that Virginia Roberts made allegations about Ms. Maxwell

in a lawsuit she instituted against Jeffrey Epstein. Ms. Maxwell is otherwise without knowledge

or information sufficient to form a belief as to the remaining allegations contained in Paragraph

17.

       18.     Ms. Maxwell admits that Virginia Roberts made allegations about Ms. Maxwell

in a lawsuit she instituted against Jeffrey Epstein but denies the allegations contained in

Paragraph 18, including that allegation that she engaged in any sex trafficking or any recruiting

of any minor for purposes of sexual crimes.

       19.     Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 19.

       20.     Ms. Maxwell admits that her attorney received a document entitled “subpoena” in

connection with some litigation against Mr. Epstein. Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or

information sufficient to form a belief as to the remaining allegations contained in Paragraph 20.

       21.     Ms. Maxwell admits that her then 89 year old mother was very ill in 2010 and that

she traveled to the United Kingdom to help with her care. Ms. Maxwell denies the remaining

allegations contained in Paragraph 21.

       22.     Ms. Maxwell denies that she committed or participated in any sexual abuse. Ms.

Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the allegations

contained in Paragraph 22.

       23.     Ms. Maxwell denies that Giuffre was a victim of sexual trafficking or abuse

insofar as those allegations relate to Ms. Maxwell and is without knowledge or information

sufficient to form a belief as to the remaining allegations contained in Paragraph 23.




                                                 5
       24.     Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 24.

       25.     Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 25.

       26.     Ms. Maxwell is without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to

the allegations contained in Paragraph 26.

       27.     Ms. Maxwell admits that Ms. Giuffre made false allegations about her in a motion

filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida that were stricken by

that Court as “impertinent and immaterial” and Ms. Maxwell denies those allegations.

       28.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 28.

       29.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 29.

       30.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 30, including the

allegations in sub-paragraphs 30 (a) – (c).

       31.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 31.

       32.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 32.

       33.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 33.

       34.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 34.

       35.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 35.

       36.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 36.

       37.     Ms. Maxwell admits that she made a verbal statement to a reporter in Manhattan

on or about January 4, 2015 after the reporter accosted her outside her home with a camera, in

which she referenced the statement that had been made and declining further questions. The

video speaks for itself. Ms. Maxwell denies the remaining allegations in Paragraph 37.


                                                 6
                                 COUNT 1: DEFAMATION
       1.      Ms. Maxwell restates all of the foregoing answers contained in paragraphs 1-37

above. Ms. Maxwell denies that she or her representatives made any defamatory statements. To

the extent paragraph 1 of the Complaint states conclusions or characterizations of the law, no

response is required. To the extent the Court determines a response is required, Ms. Maxwell

denies knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as the allegations in paragraph 1.

Ms. Maxwell denies the remaining factual allegations contained in Paragraph 1.

       2.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 2.

       3.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 3.

       4.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 4.

       5.      Ms. Maxwell denies that she or Mr. Ross Gow made any defamatory statement.

To the extent Paragraph 5 states conclusions or characterizations of the law, no response is

required. Ms. Maxwell otherwise denies the legal conclusions contained in Paragraph 5.

       6.      Ms. Maxwell denies that she or Ross Gow made any defamatory statement. To

the extent Paragraph 6 states conclusions or characterizations of the law, no response is required.

       7.      Ms. Maxwell denies that she or Ross Gow made any defamatory statement. To

the extent Paragraph 7 states conclusions or characterizations of the law, no response is required.

       8.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 8.

       9.      Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 9.

       10.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 10.

       11.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 11.

       12.     Ms. Maxwell admits that Plaintiff lied about being recruited by Maxwell and lied

about being sexually abused by Maxwell. Ms. Maxwell otherwise denies the allegations

contained in Paragraph 12.
                                                 7
       13.     Ms. Maxwell admits that Plaintiff lied about specific facts. Ms. Maxwell denies

that she made any false or defamatory statements. Ms. Maxwell is without information or

knowledge sufficient to form a belief as to what other persons understood. Ms. Maxwell

otherwise denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 13.

       14.     Ms. Maxwell denies that Giuffre’s public description of factual events was true

and therefore denies that her own statements were false. Ms. Maxwell is without information or

knowledge sufficient to form a belief as to what other persons understood.

       15.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 15.

       16.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 16.

       17.     Ms. Maxwell denies that her own statements were false. Ms. Maxwell denies the

remaining allegations and legal conclusions contained in Paragraph 17.

       18.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 18.

       19.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 19.

       20.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 20.

       21.     Ms. Maxwell denies the allegations contained in Paragraph 21.

       22.     As to all the entire Complaint, Ms. Maxwell denies any allegation not specifically

admitted.


                                AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
       23.     The Complaint fails to state a claim upon which relief could be granted.

       24.     Plaintiff’s claims may be barred by the statute of limitations.

       25.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the “single publication” rule.

       26.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) were constitutionally protected opinions.

                                                 8
       27.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred in whole or in part by the United Kingdom’s

Defamation Act of 2013.

       28.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) were non-defamatory statements of fact.

       29.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) were protected by the self-defense privilege.

       30.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) were protected by qualified or conditional privileges.

       31.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because she is a public figure and unable to prove

that Ms. Maxwell acted with “actual malice.”

       32.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) were substantially true.

       33.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) constituted “fair comment.”

       34.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) cannot realistically have caused impairment to Plaintiff’s reputation.

       35.     This Court lacks subject matter to adjudicate Plaintiff’s claims because they do

not exceed the sum or value of $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs. 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a).

       36.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred because the statements made by Ms. Maxwell or her

agent (if any) did not cause or contribute to any damages suffered by Plaintiff.

       37.     To the extent Plaintiff suffered an injury, she failed to take reasonable, necessary,

appropriate and feasible steps to mitigate her alleged damages, and to the extent of such failure

to mitigate, she should be barred from recovering some or all of the alleged damages she seeks.


                                                 9
       38.     Plaintiff’s damages, if any, are the proximate result of intervening causes, pre-

existing medical and mental conditions of Plaintiff, and/or causes that occurred without

knowledge or participation of Ms. Maxwell and for which Ms. Maxwell is not responsible.

       39.     Plaintiff’s damages, if any, were the result of her own conduct or the conduct of

others and were not proximately caused by any action of Ms. Maxwell.

       40.     Plaintiff voluntarily or negligently assumed a known risk.

       41.     Plaintiff’s claims are barred, in whole or in part, by the affirmative defenses of

waiver, estoppel, laches, and/or unclean hands.


                                            JURY DEMAND


       Ghislaine Maxwell demands a jury trial.


WHEREFORE, Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell demands judgment as follows:

   A. That Plaintiff Virginia Giuffre take nothing by way of her Complaint;

   B. That the Complaint be dismissed with prejudice;

   C. That Judgment be entered in favor of Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell and against Plaintiff

       Virginia Giuffre;

   D. That Defendant Ghislaine Maxwell be awarded her costs and fees in this action, including

       reasonable attorneys’ fees and pre- and post-judgment interest; and

   E. All other such relief as this Court deems just and proper.




                                                  10
Dated: March 14, 2016



                                                Respectfully submitted,



                                                /s/ Laura A. Menninger
                                                Laura A. Menninger (LM-1374)
                                                HADDON, MORGAN AND FOREMAN, P.C.
                                                150 East 10th Avenue
                                                Denver, CO 80203
                                                Phone: 303.831.7364
                                                Fax:     303.832.2628
                                                lmenninger@hmflaw.com

                                                Attorney for Ghislaine Maxwell




                                CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I certify that on March 14, 2016, I electronically served this Answer via ECF on the
following:

Sigrid S. McCawley
BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER, LLP
401 East Las Olas Boulevard, Ste. 1200
Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301
smccawley@bsfllp.com

                                                 /s/ Nicole Simmons
                                                 Nicole Simmons




                                               11
