                              United States District Court
                             Southern District of New York


Virginia L. Giuffre,

               Plaintiff,                    Case No.: 15-cv-07433-RWS

v.

Ghislaine Maxwell,

            Defendant.
________________________________/

            PLAINTIFF VIRGINIA GIUFFRE’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S
                        MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

       Plaintiff Virginia L. Giuffre, by and through undersigned counsel, respectfully submits

this Response to Defendant’s Motion for A Protective Order.

       I.      BACKGROUND

       On February 5, 2016, Plaintiff, Virginia Giuffre, noticed Defendant Maxwell’s deposition

for March 2, 2016. See Sigrid McCawley Declaration (hereinafter “McCawley Decl.”) at Exhibit

1. Due to Defendant’s counsel’s scheduling conflict, Ms. Giuffre re-noticed the deposition to

March 25, 2016. See McCawley Decl. at Exhibit 2. Defendant demanded that Ms. Giuffre agree

to a Protective Order before Defendant would agree to sit for her deposition. See McCawley

Decl. at Exhibit 3, (E-mail from Laura Menninger stating: “We have not and will not accept the

date of March 25, or any other date, for Ms. Maxwell’s deposition until a protective order is in

place.”). In an effort to move forward with the Defendant’s deposition without further delay,

Ms. Giuffre stated that she would be willing to “agree to a reasonable Protective Order being in

place in this case” and attached a redlined version of Defendant’s proposed Protective Order.




                                                1
See McCawley Decl. at Exhibit 4, McCawley e-mail correspondence dated February 26, 2016.

Ms. Giuffre also communicated that she would agree to treat Maxwell’s deposition as

confidential until such time as the Court would enter a Protective Order, to remove any need to

delay Defendant’s March 25, 2016 deposition. Defendant never responded to Ms. Giuffre’s

proposed revisions to the Protective Order: instead, she filed this Motion.

II.     ARGUMENT

        Ms. Giuffre does not oppose the entrance of a Protective Order in this case, but does

oppose a Protective Order in the form proposed by Defendant because it is overly broad and can

lead to abuse and over designation of material as “confidential.” Ms. Giuffre’s proposal1, which

is attached in both a redlined version and a clean version (See McCawley Decl. at Exhibit 5),

addresses the following important issues:

               Opening Paragraph: Given the fact that this case involves sexual abuse

                allegations of a minor child, Ms. Giuffre defined confidential information as:

                “including sensitive personal information relating to a victim of sexual abuse,

                copyright or trade secrets, commercially sensitive information or proprietary

                information.” Ms. Giuffre disagrees with Defendant’s broad definition which

                provided “or information which will improperly annoy, embarrass or oppress any

                party, witness or person providing discovery in the case.” There are a number of

                problems with Defendant’s proposed language, for example, evidence that

                demonstrates that Maxwell engaged in abuse of a minor is clearly “embarrassing”

                but that should not be deemed “confidential” solely because Maxwell does not

                want her crimes to be made public. Allowing Maxwell to make overly broad


1
 Exhibit 5 varies slightly from Exhibit 4, the version sent to opposing counsel, because Ms. Giuffre
corrected some typographical and spelling issues.


                                                    2
    confidentiality designations of that type of discovery would wrongfully allow the

    abuser to hide behind a claim of confidentiality.

   Purposes and Limitations:         Ms. Giuffre’s proposed revisions include an

    introductory “purpose” section which sets forth a requirement that confidential

    designations must be made in “good faith.” Ms. Giuffre contends this section is

    important to place an obligation on counsel to act in good faith and avoid broad

    sweeping confidentiality designations.

   Paragraph 3: In paragraph 3, Ms. Giuffre struck the word “implicates” and

    replaced it with “is covered by” because many things can “implicate” but only

    those things that are actually “covered by a common law and statutory privacy

    protection” should be deemed “confidential”. Ms. Giuffre also added “or any

    non-party that was subject to sexual abuse” because she anticipates there will be

    non-party witnesses in this case testifying to abuse they endured, and the non-

    parties should, likewise, be able to protect that sensitive personal information with

    a confidentiality designation. Accordingly, if Ms. Giuffre’s proposal is accepted,

    Paragraph 3 will read: “Information designated “Confidential” shall be

    information that is confidential and is covered by common law and statutory

    privacy protections of (a) plaintiff Virginia Giuffre (b) defendant Ghislaine

    Maxwell or (c) any non-party that was subject to sexual abuse.”

   Paragraph 4:     Paragraph 4 provides: “Confidential information shall not be

    disclosed or used for any purpose except the preparation and trial of this case.”

    Ms. Giuffre proposed adding to this sentence: “and any related matter, including

    but not limited to, investigations by law enforcement.” Ms. Giuffre’s addition is




                                      3
    important because Defendant should not be able to shield her conduct from

    review by law enforcement by cloaking it in a “confidential” designation.

   Paragraph 5: Paragraph 5 addresses who may view confidential information and

    Ms. Giuffre proposed adding to that list: “(h) any person (1) who authored or

    received the particular Protected Material; (2) who has or had at any point in time

    access to the Protected Material outside of the context of this action; or (3) for

    which there is a good faith basis to conclude that the individual has earlier

    received or seen such Protected Material. and (j) any other person by written

    agreement of the parties or by Order of a Court of competent jurisdiction.” Ms.

    Giuffre made the proposed addition above because she contends it will alleviate

    debate over a document that has been marked “confidential” by one party but is a

    document that has been previously disclosed to certain individuals.

   Paragraph 11: Ms. Giuffre revised the protocol for challenging the designation

    of a document as “confidential” in order to stream line that process as follows:

    “(a) A Party shall not be obligated to challenge the propriety of any designation of

    discovery material under this Order at the time the designation is made, and a

    failure to do so shall not preclude a subsequent challenge thereto. Moreover,

    failure   to   challenge   the   designation   of   any   discovery   material   as

    CONFIDENTIAL shall not in any way constitute an admission that such material

    contains any competitively sensitive information, trade secret information, or

    other protectable material. (b) In the event that counsel for the Party receiving

    Protected Material objects to the CONFIDENTIAL designation of any or all such

    items, said counsel shall provide the Producing Party and, if different, the




                                      4
    Designating Party written notice of, and the basis for, such objections. The

    Parties will use their best efforts to resolve such objections among themselves.

    Should the Receiving Party, the Producing Party and, if different, the Designating

    Party be unable to resolve the objections, the Receiving Party may seek a hearing

    before this Court with respect to the propriety of the designation.            The

    Designating Party will cooperate in obtaining a prompt hearing with respect

    thereto. Pending a resolution, the discovery material in question shall continue to

    be treated as Protected Material as provided hereunder. The burden of proving

    that Discovery Material is properly designated shall at all times remain with the

    Designating Party.”

   Paragraph 13: Ms. Giuffre added paragraph 13 to provide protection for non-

    party witnesses who are subpoenaed in this case and are asked to disclose

    sensitive information regarding sexual abuse they may have endured.           This

    paragraph provides a non-party with the opportunity to designate that sensitive

    information as “confidential”. The added paragraph 13 provides: “With respect to

    any Discovery Material produced by such non-party, the non-party may invoke

    the terms of this Order in writing to all Parties by designating discovery material

    “CONFIDENTIAL” or “HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL—ATTORNEYS’ EYES

    ONLY”. Any such Protected Material produced by the non-party designated

    “CONFIDENTIAL” or ““HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL—ATTORNEYS’ EYES

    ONLY” shall be subject to the restrictions contained in this Order and shall only

    be disclosed or used in a manner consistent with this Order.”




                                     5
   Paragraph 14: Ms. Giuffre added paragraph 14 to protect a circumstance of an

    inadvertent failure to designate and to include a protocol for how to handle a

    retroactive designation in that circumstance. The added paragraph 14 provides:

    “In the event that any Producing Party inadvertently produces Discovery Material

    eligible for designation as CONFIDENTIAL or HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL—

    ATTORNEYS’ EYES ONLY without such designation, the Parties agree that the

    Producing Party may retroactively apply the correct designation. If a Producing

    Party makes a subsequent designation, the Receiving Party will treat the Protected

    Material according to the retroactive designation, including undertaking best

    efforts to retrieve all previously distributed copies from any recipients now

    ineligible to access the Protected Material.”

   Paragraph 15: Ms. Giuffre also added a paragraph on “Limitations” to clarify

    that information that has been previously disclosed or is publicly available cannot

    be restricted from disclosure. Specifically, Ms. Giuffre added the following:

    “Limitations. Nothing in this Order shall restrict in any way the use or disclosure

    of Protected Material by a Receiving Party (a) that is or has become publicly

    known through no fault of the Receiving Party; (b) that is lawfully acquired by or

    known to the Receiving Party independent of the Producing Party; (c) that was

    previously produced, disclosed, and/or provided by the Producing Party to the

    Receiving Party or a non-party without an obligation of confidentiality and not by

    inadvertence or mistake; (d) with the consent of the Producing Party and, if

    different, the Designating Party; (e) pursuant to Order of the Court; or (f) for

    purposes of law enforcement.”




                                      6
       As addressed above, Ms. Giuffre proposed revisions to ensure that the Protective Order is

fair and limited in scope so as not to be subject to abuse. For the foregoing reasons, Ms. Giuffre

respectfully requests that the Court grant Ms. Giuffre’s proposed revisions set forth in Exhibit 5.

See McCawley Decl. at Exhibit 5.

Dated: March 4, 2016

                                              Respectfully Submitted,

                                              BOIES, SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP

                                         By: /s/ Sigrid McCawley
                                              Sigrid McCawley (Pro Hac Vice)
                                              Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                              401 E. Las Olas Blvd., Suite 1200
                                              Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301
                                              (954) 356-0011

                                               David Boies
                                               Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                               333 Main Street
                                               Armonk, NY 10504

                                               Ellen Brockman
                                               Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
                                               575 Lexington Ave
                                               New York, New York 10022
                                               (212) 446-2300




                                                 7
                                 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I HEREBY CERTIFY that on March 4, 2016, I electronically filed the foregoing document

with the Clerk of Court by using the CM/ECF system. I also certify that the foregoing document is

being served this day on the individuals identified below via transmission of Notices of Electronic

Filing generated by CM/ECF.

       Laura A. Menninger, Esq.
       HADDON, MORGAN & FOREMAN, P.C.
       150 East 10th Avenue
       Denver, Colorado 80203
       Tel: (303) 831-7364
       Fax: (303) 832-2628
       Email: lmenninger@hmflaw.com


                                                       /s/ Sigrid S. McCawley
                                                           Sigrid S. McCawley




                                                  8
