Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 1 of 30




                  EXHIBIT 2
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 2 of 30



Neutral Citation Number: [2004] EWHC 373 (Ch)

                                                                          Case No: HC 00 04556

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE

CHANCERY DIVISION

                                                                          Royal Courts of Justice

                                                                  Strand, London, WC2A 2LL

                                                                             Date: 1 March 2004

                                         Before :

                     THE HONOURABLE MR JUSTICE MANN

                              ---------------------

                                        Between :

                                 (1) USP Strategies Plc                              Claimants

                              (2) Unicorn Strategies LLC

                                          - and -

                             (1) London General Holdings Limited                    Defendants

                              (2) AON Warranty Group Limited

                             (3) AON Warranty Services Limited

                              ---------------------

                              ---------------------

      Mr Anthony Watson Q.C. (instructed by Denton Wilde Sapte) for the Claimants

     Mr Andrew Monson (instructed by Berwin Leighton Paisner) for the Defendants

                     Hearing dates: 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th February 2004

                              ---------------------
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 3 of 30



                            Judgment
      Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 4 of 30




Mr Justice Mann :

Background

   1. The two applications before me are related applications which turn on the question of
      legal professional privilege and, to a more limited extent, general obligations of
      disclosure and listing. In 1998 the claimants prepared, or caused to be prepared,
      documentation for a warranty scheme which they sought to sell to retailers to replace
      insurance based schemes which had been rendered commercially unattractive by a
      change in the tax regime. A Mr Chan and a Mr Cooper, solicitors on the Isle of Man,
      devised a scheme involving moneys being held off-shore and in trust. In the course of
      devising the scheme a document known in these proceedings as a CAA (an acronym for
      Collections Account Agreement) was prepared. Copyright in that document vested in the
      second claimant; in due course it was transferred to the first claimant. I shall not
      distinguish between those two companies for the purposes of this judgment (because it is
      not necessary to do so) and shall treat all relevant copyright and confidentiality rights as
      being vested in what I will call "USP". The CAA came into the possession of the first
      defendant ("LGH") because that company was, at the time, the administrator of the
      scheme in question ("the Scottish Power scheme"), but it was the subject of a
      confidentiality agreement. Modifications were carried out to it, and a finalised version
      was used in that scheme. As a result of joint input into the final document, the judge at
      the hearing on liability referred to below found that copyright in that final version vested
      jointly in Scottish Power and USP.
   2. In 2000 the claimants and LGH were rivals in bidding to participate in another scheme,
      this time for an entity which I will call Powerhouse. In this context LGH and the other
      two defendants, who are all companies in the same group (the AON group), used the final
      form draft CAA as a starting point for the drafting of a similar document which they put
      forward in their bid to devise and operate a scheme for Powerhouse. In doing so they are
      said to have been able to maintain a bidding position in competition with the claimants
      until Powerhouse ultimately decided that the claimants' scheme was one that they
      preferred. In a judgment delivered on 8th November 2002 HH Judge Weeks QC held that
      that use was an infringement of the copyright in the 1998 original and a breach of
      confidentiality, and he ordered an inquiry as to the damages arising from those wrongs.
      That inquiry is not confined to the actual breaches that he found; it is set to be held at the
      end of April before a Master.
   3. In the context of the inquiry questions of privilege arise. In the course of considering their
      participation in the Powerhouse scheme LGH instructed lawyers on the Isle of Man. The
      results of their deliberations were apparently passed to Powerhouse. It is in relation to
      that advice and certain matters passing among the defendants and between the defendants
      and Powerhouse that privilege questions arise. In addition, the inquiry will consider
      infringements relating to another transaction in relation to a concern identified as Apollo.
      The defendants, or their group, did enter into a scheme with Apollo, and it is not alleged
      that the final scheme involved the use of any documents over which copyright or
      confidentiality is claimed. However, it is said that at some stage consideration was given
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 5 of 30



   to using the CAA, and that there were infringements at that stage of the transaction.
   Questions of privilege and disclosure arise in relation to that too.



   The Powerhouse claim facts – detail

4. The background to this matter leading up to the infringements found by HH Judge Weeks
   is set out in some detail in his judgment; I do not propose to set them out again here. For
   present purposes I can take the story up at the beginning of 2000. At that point of time, as
   HH Judge Weeks QC stated, LGH and USP found themselves in competition. The
   claimants offered their scheme at a given price (the details do not matter). A Mr
   Brimacombe of LGH had a copy of the Scottish Power CAA on his computer. It was
   copied for a Mr Mian, a sales director of LGH, with names blanked out. In due course it
   was sent to Powerhouse's lawyers, on 7th March (which was the infringement relied on
   and established at the trial). Part of the case of the claimants is that the defendants did this
   in order to establish that they had a workable (or "robust", as it was put at the time)
   scheme, so that they remained in the game. That gave Powerhouse competing bidders and
   they were able to play one off against the other. As a result of this Powerhouse were able
   to come back to the claimants at the end of March and negotiate a reduction in the price
   quoted. A deal was done at that reduced price. This reduction in price forms part of the
   damages claim. The claimants say that the infringement helped to keep the defendants in
   the running, and the fact that they were in the running enabled Powerhouse to come back
   and require a reduction in price. I do not need to consider this chain of causation – that is
   a matter for the inquiry.
5. However, the claimants also now rely on earlier matters. The claimants seek to establish
   an earlier breach. I have already referred to a reduction of price at the end of March.
   However, earlier, on 1st March 2000 Powerhouse had been also been able to negotiate a
   reduction in price from the claimants. In the inquiry the claimants will seek to establish
   that that reduction was attributable to earlier infringements. In mid-February 2000 LGH
   had sought advice from Manx lawyers. According to a chronology submitted by Mr
   Monson, who appeared for the defendants, a letter from Mr de Freitas, the solicitor acting
   for the defendants, stated that:

   "The nature of the advice sought from the solicitors in the Isle of Man concerned whether
   a trust based arrangement could be set up to protect monies from the Powerhouse scheme
   from being merged, or treated as merged, with other moneys held by AWS for other
   clients";

   but at the same time it was made clear that in providing those details privilege was not
   waived in the instructions and the advice. The claimants will seek to establish that in
   order to get that advice, the CAA was copied, and that copying was a further
   infringement of copyright and of confidentiality rights. The advice that was obtained was
   apparently passed on to Powerhouse; it is said that it was the subject of a confidentiality
   agreement operating between the defendants and Powerhouse. The agreement is dated
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 6 of 30



   15th March 2000 and is made between "Aon Warranty Group" and Powerhouse Retail
   Ltd. The relevant clauses are as follows:

   In consideration of AON making available to the Recipient [i.e. Powerhouse] certain
   information, the Recipient hereby undertakes to AON in the terms set out below:

   Confidential Information

   For the purposes of this confidentiality agreement the expression Confidential
   Information includes information available (whether before or after this confidentiality
   agreement is agreed) in writing (including by fax) and other forms of electronic
   transmission (including but not limited to information relating to clients data belonging to
   AON, know-how, trade secrets and any other information concerning the Purpose and
   also any information or analyses derived from, containing or reflecting such
   information…

   The recipient shall:

   Keep the Confidential Information secret and confidential and not disclose any of it to
   any person other than the persons who need to know the same for the purposes of
   considering, evaluating, advising on or furthering the Purpose and whom the Recipient
   shall procure are informed of the terms of this confidentiality agreement and observe the
   terms of this confidentiality agreement as if they were party hereto;

   Only use the Confidential Information for the sole purpose of considering, evaluating,
   advising on or furthering the Purpose and, in particular, not for any other commercial
   purpose;…

   Keep the Confidential Information and any copies thereof secure and in such a way so as
   to prevent unauthorised access by any third party, shall not make copies of it or reproduce
   it in any form except for the purpose of supplying the same to those to whom disclosure
   is permitted in accordance with this confidentiality agreement.

   [There is a provision for the return of all written Confidential Information within 7 days
   of termination of the agreement].

   The Purpose is defined as being the wish of the group to "[launch] an offshore extended
   warranty programme".

6. In late February 2000, Mr Borrill of the claimants was told by Mr Turner of Powerhouse
   that their bid was still too high, and on 1st March 2000 Mr Turner was able to negotiate a
   drop in the price that the claimants had originally quoted for their scheme. This price
   drop was bigger in amount than that negotiated at the end of the month. The case of the
   claimants is that Mr Turner was only able to do this because of what he had been told by
   the defendants; and the defendants were only able to say what they said by dint of their
   legal advice; and they were only able to get that legal advice by infringing copyright in
    Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 7 of 30



   the CAA, and breaking the confidentiality agreement. Since this earlier price drop is
   greater than the later one, it is a more valuable part of the claimant's claim. The losses
   flowing from this price drop are a material part of what the claimants seek in this action
   as flowing from the wrongs alleged. Again, it is not for me to comment on the merits of
   this chain of causation.
7. It is in the context of that earlier part of the claim that the material which is the subject of
   this part of the present application came into existence. I am not asked to rule on
   relevance; both parties accept that the documents and material that I have to consider are
   relevant. The question for me is whether it is privileged. The material, and the issues
   relating to each part of it, can be summarised as follows:



       a. There are documents or parts of documents where the documents have already
          been disclosed by the defendants but in respect of which privilege is claimed in
          whole or as to part. Where privilege is claimed as to the whole, the document has
          not been produced for inspection. Where it has been claimed in part, the allegedly
          privileged part has been obscured for the purposes of inspection. These
          documents are e-mail or letter correspondence passing between one or more of the
          defendants of the one part and Powerhouse of the other, one e-mail from the
          Manx solicitors to the third defendant, and one e-mail from the third defendant to
          the first defendant.
       b. I am asked to strike out parts of certain witness statements which are said to refer
          to privileged communications in a manner which makes it improper for the
          witnesses to give evidence of that material. The witnesses are witnesses for the
          claimants. One is Mr Turner, who at certain points in his evidence makes
          reference to the legal advice which the defendants had told him they had received,
          and at one point sets out the terms of an e-mail referring to it. The second and
          third are Mr Borrill (a director of each of the claimant companies) and Mr Chan,
          another director and also a Manx solicitor. The allegedly objectionable parts of
          their witness statements are those containing what Mr Turner told them in the
          negotiations leading up to the Powerhouse contract, and in which Mr Turner made
          reference to the advice which the defendants had obtained on their (the
          defendants') scheme. In Mr Chan's case objection is taken to a reference to legal
          advice which, it is to be inferred, he heard about from Mr Turner and one
          paragraph in an e-mail that he sent at the time which refers to the same sort of
          thing.
       c. I am asked to order the removal from the evidence of part of two Powerhouse
          internal memoranda which Powerhouse has disclosed to the claimants and which
          contain, among other things, a reference to the legal advice which had been
          obtained in the Isle of Man. It is that reference which I am asked to order the
          deletion of.
       d. There was one document, a copy letter from LGH to Powerhouse (document 15),
          in respect of which privilege was originally maintained, but which on reflection
          was sought to be excluded from inspection on the grounds that further
          consideration of the letter indicated that it was not relevant. The parties agreed
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 8 of 30



          that that dispute would be resolved by my looking at the document and ruling on
          the point. The claimants have not seen it, but were happy to adopt that expedient.
       e. I am asked to strike out parts of the Particulars of Claim in the inquiry on the
          footing that they are abusive because they refer to and rely on privileged material,
          or can only be pleaded because the claimants are in possession of material which
          has been obtained in infringement of the rights of the defendants.
       f. I am asked to order that the defendants serve a formal list of documents in relation
          to the inquiry.

   The contentions of the parties

8. Mr Monson, for the defendants, maintains that privilege exists in all the material that he
   seeks to have excluded, and that it has not been waived. That being the case, the
   documentary material containing privileged material ought to be excluded, with limited
   exceptions. All the material fell within the proper definition of material that was the
   subject of legal professional privilege. For the purposes of the exercise of analysis, and to
   distinguish various types of material for the purposes of the debate, the written material
   was divided into three categories or levels:
       a. Level 1 – this was a reference which merely referred to the fact of getting
           solicitors advice, without indicating the instructions, advice or even the subject
           matter.
       b. Level 2 – these were indications that advice had been obtained from solicitors,
           and indicating its subject matter but not its content or the instructions given.
       c. Level 3 – written advice, or written instructions, or paraphrases, summaries or
           extracts from that advice.

   Using this categorisation he was able to go through the redacted documents and explain
   the basis, in respect of each, on which privilege was claimed. The same categorisation
   was adopted for the purposes of considering the witness statement material and the
   Powerhouse documents, but Mr Monson did abandon his claims to strike out the Level 1
   and 2 material from those statements and documents, which narrowed the scope of the
   debate (but not by much).

9. The principal dispute between the parties was the extent to which the defendants could
   claim privilege in relation to the substance of communications between the client (in
   effect, the defendants) and a third party where what was communicated was, or referred
   to, privileged advice given to the client. Mr Monson's case was that the advice started out
   as privileged and it remained privileged notwithstanding its wider dissemination, as a
   result of two strands of authority. The first is The Good Luck [1992] 2 Lloyds Rep 540,
   which demonstrates that privileged material disseminated within the client company that
   obtained it is capable of retaining its privilege, but he seeks to apply it to show that
   privilege exists in documents communicated to a third party on the facts of this case. The
   second is Gotha City v Southeby's [1998] 1 WLR 114. That case is said to demonstrate
   that it is possible to disclose advice to an outsider without destroying or waiving the
   privilege which attaches to it other than as between the privilege owner and the third
   party. Those principles entitle the defendants to redact material which would otherwise
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 9 of 30



    be disclosed. So far as restraining material which emanates from Powerhouse is
    concerned (the Powerhouse documents, Mr Turner's evidence and evidence from USP
    witnesses as to what Mr Turner told them at the time about legal advice) Mr Monson says
    that the defendants are entitled to restrain that on the footing that the material was and
    remained privileged, and its use ought to be restrained on principles to be gleaned from
    Lord Ashburton v Pape [1913] 2 Ch 469 and Goddard v Nationwide Building Society
    [1987] QB 670. This applies whether or not Mr Turner, Mr Chan or Mr Borrill is giving
    evidence of it, or whether it is in documents revealed voluntarily by Powerhouse. So far
    as the Particulars of Claim go, the claim which attempts to base itself on this material
    must similarly be struck out as an abuse of the process.
10. Mr Watson QC, for the claimants, comes at this from a slightly different angle. He
    obviously starts by accepting that there is privilege in the original advice from the Manx
    lawyers. He also accepts that it remains privileged while being passed within the client
    company, and he accepted that there would be common interest privilege where the
    advice was shared between the defendants. (This last concession makes it unnecessary for
    me to distinguish between the various defendants and enables me to treat the defendants
    as if they were one body for the purposes of considering the issues I have to decide).
    However, with the exception of a passing on of the advice verbatim and in whole, which
    he accepts remains privileged, he says that passing on summaries or parts of the advice to
    a third party does not amount to a privileged communication. This is because those
    communications do not fall within what he says are the requisite elements of privileged
    communications (which he extracts from the decision of Moore-Bick J in United States of
    America v Philip Morris & others, unreported, 10th December 2003) because:
         a. They are not communications passing between lawyer and client – they are
             communications passing between client and a third party.
         b. They are not confidential, on the facts of this case. This means that the
             communications were not privileged, and if privilege might otherwise attach it has
             been waived.
         c. They were not for the dominant purpose of obtaining or giving legal advice – the
             legal advice was conveyed as part of a sales pitch.
11. Mr Watson goes on to submit that so far as Level 1 and Level 2 communications are
    concerned, they do not even contain a sufficient reference to advice to get a privilege case
    off the ground, and in any event there has been waiver of privilege because of material
    already deployed by the defendants in this litigation. Gotha is irrelevant, he says, because
    it is a case about waiver, and the question of whether a communication is privileged has
    to be answered first. So far as restraining the use of information that has already been
    obtained is concerned, he says that the principles to be extracted from Goddard and Lord
    Ashburton do not apply so as to restrain officers of the claimants giving evidence of what
    they were told in negotiations by Mr Turner, and Mr Turner should not be constrained
    from giving the evidence sought because his communications did not infringe any
    confidentiality rights of the defendants. He has various particular points on the wording
    which is sought to be excluded and in addition says that even if some of the material
    would otherwise be within an unwaived privilege, I should exercise my discretion not to
    strike it out, or otherwise restrain witnesses from giving evidence, because the defendants
    are using privilege to cover up wrong-doing (a sort of "clean hands" point), the claimants
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 10 of 30



    were innocent recipients of the information from Powerhouse and there has been delay on
    the part of the defendants in making their application.
12. In relation to this last point Mr Watson relies on an e-mail which has already, as a matter
    of form, already appeared in evidence in this case. He relies on this as showing not only
    that the defendants were or ought to have been aware of disclosures by Mr Turner as long
    ago as August 2001, when it was disclosed in this action as part of the disclosure process,
    but also in support of a proposition that much if not all of the position that the defendants
    seek to protect has been put in the public domain by the previous (and current) use of that
    e-mail. I need to set out this material.
13. On 6th March 2000 Mr Chan, who it will be remembered is a director of the Claimant
    companies, wrote to Mr Turner in the course of his negotiations. Apparently, Mr Turner
    had asked for a copy of the Claimants' collection account agreement for the purpose of
    comparing it with the scheme proposed by the AON Group. He declined to supply it. The
    email observes that at that stage Mr Chan suspected that the Defendants had used "a draft
    prepared from our precedent". The sentence relied on by Mr Watson is a paragraph which
    reads as follows:

   "The solution promoted to you by AON and their advisors is that a Collections Account
   Agreement (sic) in the form of a trust will attain this and that therefore they have
   demonstrated the robustness required of them."

   (This, I would observe, is the passage that the defendants seek to have removed from the
   evidence, as referred to above. It will appear below that I am against redacting this
   material, so I am free to set it out in this judgment.) This email was annexed to a witness
   statement used by Mr Chan at the trial on liability. Mr Watson says that this email points
   to the fact that Mr Turner was saying things about legal advice, and that accordingly the
   Defendants have been aware of his disclosures, or the possibility of his disclosures, ever
   since the discovery process. So far as publicity is concerned, Mr Watson also relies on
   this email as demonstrating that the present position which the Claimants rely on in their
   particulars of claim is already in the public domain because the judge will be taken to
   have read this material at the trial, and it was formally part of Mr Chan's evidence on that
   occasion, although it does not appear that any specific reference was made to it at the
   trial. I shall deal with the significance, if any, of this email below.

   The legal principles involved

14. One doctrine can be put on one side for the purposes of this judgment, and that is the
    doctrine of common interest privilege. I have already indicated that Mr Watson for his
    part accepted that common interest privilege existed as between the three defendant
    companies, so that communications of advice between the three of them attracted this
    form of privilege. Mr Monson for his part accepted that the doctrine did not operate as
    between the defendants on the one hand and Powerhouse on the other, because one of the
    tests which have to be fulfilled in order for joint privilege to exist is that the parties in
    question have to be capable of acting by the same solicitor in the matter in question,
    which requirement could not be fulfilled in the case of the defendants and Powerhouse.
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 11 of 30



15. It is therefore necessary to consider the extent to which privilege is maintained in
    material which is communicated to a third party by the client, which is the issue lying at
    the heart of these applications. This involves considering whether the communication was
    capable of being privileged, and if so whether the privilege has been waived.
16. Mr Watson's submissions rely heavily on the effect of the Court of Appeal decision in
    Three Rivers District Council v The Governor & The Company of the Bank of England
    (no 7) [2003] EWCA Civ 474. He claims that that authority confines privilege to
    communications between solicitor and client, or vice versa. Communications with a third
    party fall outside that, because they do not fall within the description of communications
    between solicitor and client. While the case allows evidence of the contents of
    communications to attract privilege, that is limited to internal communications
    disseminating the information in question. Since the communication of advice to
    Powerhouse was not a solicitor/client communication, it cannot be privileged.
17. I do not think that that is a correct application or analysis of the Three Rivers case. That
    case concerned not advice given by the solicitors, but preparations for the giving of
    instructions which were to lead to advice. In that context it was held that information
    gathered for that purpose was not within the privilege, because only communications
    were. But before too much is read into that, it must be born in mind that it concerns
    instructions, not advice. The Court of Appeal in that case did not have before it the extent
    to which the product of those instructions (the advice) was or was not communicated and
    what might happen to it thereafter, and care must be taken before taking the concept of
    "communication" too literally for these purposes.
18. In my view, a correct reading of the case indicates that it does not support Mr Watson's
    proposition, and that reading is consistent with authority preceding Three Rivers. In
    paragraph 19 of his judgment Longmore LJ stated that "By the end of the nineteenth
    century it was, therefore, clear that legal advice privilege … [applied] only to
    communications passing between [the] client and his solicitor (whether or not through
    any intermediary) and documents evidencing such communications" (my emphasis). A
    document evidencing the communication cannot be the communication itself, so
    Longmore LJ's formulation goes beyond the communication itself. Again, at paragraph
    21 he concludes that the 19th century authorities allowed privilege to "documents …
    passing between the client and his legal advisers and evidence of the contents of such
    communications", (again, my emphasis) and went on to apply that principle. Again,
    therefore, records of communications were privileged. If emphasis be needed, it can be
    seen in the form of order made by the Court of Appeal, which is set out in a judgment of
    Tomlinson J in a later hearing in the same case ([2003] EWHC 2565 (Comm)) – the
    declaration as to privilege encompassed:

   "(1) Communications passing between the Bank and its legal advisers (including any
   solicitor seconded to the Bank) for the purposes of seeking or obtaining legal advice;

   (2) Any part of a document which evidences the substance of such a communication."

19. That extended formulation would be capable of catching a number of things beyond the
    actual communication (oral or written) between solicitor and client, when applied to
    advice rather than instructions, all of which would be consistent with the policy
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 12 of 30



underlying privilege and with a common sense application of that policy to the
practicalities of everyday commercial life.
   a. First, it obviously applies to a letter of legal advice, or a letter containing legal
        advice.
   b. Second, it would cover the client's own written record of what his solicitor had
        told him orally. There is every reason why it should.
   c. Third, it would cover the situation where a client representative who obtains the
        advice passes that advice internally in the organisation in question. This would
        apply whether the advice is passed on verbatim or whether it is summarised or
        extracted. This is in line with The Good Luck, referred to above. In that case the
        relevant issue was whether or not breaches of duty by insurers were causative of a
        bank lending money to the owners of a vessel. The bank obtained some legal
        advice, and parts of the advice were disseminated internally so that the bank could
        decide whether to lend the money. It was submitted that the advice so extracted
        was not privileged because "such documents cannot be described (using the words
        of Lord Justice Taylor in Balabel v Air India) as part of that necessary exchange
        of information of which the object is the giving of legal advice as and when
        appropriate nor (again using the words of the Lord Justice) as documents made
        confidentially for the purposes of legal advice …". That argument looks rather
        like an argument that only solicitor/client communications strictly so called can
        be privileged. Saville J rejected that argument. First, he pointed out that if the
        argument were right then in a great number of commercial cases the ability of a
        client to get legal advice in confidence (which underlay the doctrine of privilege)
        would be destroyed. He saw "no good reason or valid reason for the suggestion
        that the confidence which it is accepted attaches to the lawyer client
        communication itself, should somehow be lost once the advice is put to the
        commercial use for which it was sought in the first place". After pointing out that
        the logic of the argument he was rejecting would allow cross-examination of the
        officers of the client company about privileged advice, which would be a strange
        conclusion, he ended this section in his judgment by saying:

       "[The argument] is, in truth, based on the false premise that that which is
       communicated ceases to be a communication and thus loses the privilege
       attaching to lawyer-client communications."

       This last sentence is, perhaps (and with all due respect) a little dense. In The
       Sagheera [1997] 1 Lloyds Rep 160 at p 169 Rix J wondered whether it should not
       be understood in the sense "the false premise that that which is communicated
       internally ceases to be confidential" (his emphasis). Without wishing to pore over
       the sentence as if it were a statute, I think that it probably has a different meaning.
       I take it to mean that a record of a privileged communication has the same sort of
       quality as the communication itself for the purposes of privilege. In a literal sense
       a communication ceases to be that once it is communicated; but the law of
       privilege is not so blinkered as to regard privilege as attaching just to that event
       and to nothing else whatsoever. For privilege purposes a record of a
       communication is the same as the communication itself, and that is as true of
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 13 of 30



      summaries as of the verbatim original communication. That, I think, is what
      Savile J is saying. That formulation and reasoning recognises that something
      beyond the initial communication itself, strictly so called, is and should be within
      the privilege. It remains good law after Three Rivers, and is consistent with it.

   d. It would continue to cover cases such as Gotha City and the examples discussed
      in that case. In Gotha City, the apparent owner of a picture wished to sell it
      through Sothebys. It took advice from Messrs Herbert Smith (presumably relating
      to the sale, though the report does not say so) and sent a copy of the letter of
      advice to Sotheby's. Sotheby's also sat in on a meeting between the seller and
      Herbert Smith in respect of which an attendance note was produced. The plaintiff,
      who claimed to own the picture, sought inspection of the letter and attendance
      note. The argument was, in effect, about waiver of privilege, and it was held on
      the facts that there was no waiver. I shall return to that in the context of the
      present case. For the moment it should be noted that privilege was assumed to
      exist in both documents; it was not argued that the copy letter sent to Sotheby's
      was not a privileged communication. If Mr Watson's argument were correct then
      logically it ought not to be, subject to his distinction between verbatim content
      (privileged) and summarising content (not privileged); yet the argument did not
      occur to anyone in that case. In fact, it is quite clear that Staughton LJ had no
      difficulty with the concept of preserving privilege in privileged advice
      notwithstanding that it was communicated by the client to the third party, because
      at page 119 he cited, obviously with approval, a passage from Style & Hollander
      on Documentary Evidence:

      "If A shows a privileged document to his six best friends, he will not be able to
      assert privilege if one of the friends sues him because the document is not
      confidential as between him and the friend. But the fact six other people have
      seen it does not prevent him claiming privilege as against the rest of the world."

      I think that it follows from that that A would be able to restrain each of the friends
      from disclosing to the outside world what they were told on the basis that it
      remained privileged. The friends could not give secondary evidence of the
      privileged material – it would be "evidence of [privileged] communications", or
      their evidence would be "evidencing such communications" within the
      formulation in Three Rivers. By the same token, if a client summarises or extracts
      advice in a letter to a third party, that written communication is capable of
      retaining or attracting the privilege which attached to the original advice, subject
      to waiver. It, too, is something which evidences a privileged communication.



   e. This analysis gives rise to a regime which maintains intellectual consistency and
      maintains the policy underlying privilege, which is that a man is entitled to make
      a clean breast of matters to his lawyers without fear of disclosure, a policy which
      covers both the giving of instructions and the receiving of advice. It means that a
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 14 of 30



             client can reproduce the advice for his own purposes without necessarily risking
             that reproduction not being privileged, which in my view is essential to the
             sensible operation of the doctrine. It also means that he can discuss the advice
             with others without necessarily risking the same thing. A client may well wish to
             discuss advice received with a partner, or with another adviser, or (as in Gotha
             City) with a contractual counterparty who might be affected. The effect of
             privilege would be seriously dented if those communications were held to be not
             privileged so that, if evidence of them could be obtained, an insight as to the
             advice would become available. That is not a sensible result.
20. The position therefore seems to me to be as follows. Where privileged advice is disclosed
    to a third party the privilege is capable of attaching to the third party communication
    because that communication is evidence of the privileged advice within the formulation
    in Three Rivers. It does not matter whether that third party communication is of the whole
    of the advice (like the letter in Herbert Smith) or a paraphrase of or extract from the
    advice. To be fair to Mr Watson, he conceded that privilege would be maintained in
    relation to actual full copies of written advice obtained, so that in the present case he did
    not press for inspection of one document, or part of a document, which (on the evidence)
    is a straight reproduction, or forwarding, of the Manx legal advice verbatim. However, he
    sought to distinguish between the complete advice and summaries, extracts or
    paraphrases. Those, he said, were not privileged. The only justifications he was able to
    advance for this distinction were first that the paraphrases were not the original
    communication, and second that there was a potential for inaccuracy in any summary or
    paraphrase. Any inaccurate summary would not be the original advice. These
    submissions are not convincing. If it is right that the original verbatim advice remains
    privileged, then it is illogical to exclude paraphrases or parts of it. If 100% is privileged,
    then would communicating 99% of it remain privileged? – it is hard to see why not. But
    if that is right, then why not 90%, or 75%, or 50%? There is no reason to draw a line
    anywhere, and every reason not to. Mr Watson's demarcation would also, in practice,
    mean that any passing on of oral advice would be likely to be unprivileged, because it is
    most unlikely that it would be passed on in whole and verbatim. That, again, is an
    unmeritorious distinction. The proper analysis, consistent with Three Rivers, is to
    continue to afford privilege to material which evidences or reveals the substance of legal
    advice (subject, of course, to waiver). The possibility of inaccuracy is not a reason for
    departing from this principle. If the passed on "advice" were so inaccurate that it could no
    longer be properly described as a summary of the advice, then it might be that that
    communication would not be privileged (though even then it might attract privilege if it
    tended to reveal instructions given, which it might well), but there is no suggestion that
    that is the case here and I need not consider it further. Short of that, I do not see why
    some degree of inaccuracy, even if it exists, should necessarily destroy the privilege; so
    there is all the more reason for saying that the possibility of inaccuracy should not
    destroy the privilege which would otherwise exist in paraphrases or summaries.
21. This means that the subsistence or otherwise of privilege, where advice is communicated
    to a third party, turns on the extent to which there is a waiver of privilege on that
    occasion. Gotha City demonstrates that it is not inevitable that there is a waiver in those
    circumstances. In that case it was held that the receipt of the advice by Sotheby's was
    attended by a degree of confidentiality which meant that, while there was waiver as
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 15 of 30



    between the owner and Sotheby's, there was no waiver vis-à-vis the outside world. The
    question in the present case, therefore, is whether and to what extent there was a waiver. I
    consider the application of these principles to the facts of this case below.
22. In these proceedings the question was raised whether the Level 1 and Level 2 references
    were capable of being privileged. This raises (in theory) the question of whether, after
    Three Rivers and its emphasis on privilege attaching only to communications, there can
    be privilege attaching to evidence of the fact of instructing solicitors or getting advice
    from them (Level 1), or to evidence of the fact of instructing solicitors and getting advice
    on a particular subject (Level 2) because those facts are not communications or evidence
    of communications. I do not propose to consider this as a matter of principle, because on
    the facts of this case there has been a plain waiver even if there was privilege.
23. The next question of law which arises is the extent to which a party entitled to an
    unwaived privilege is entitled to restrain those in possession of the information from
    disclosing it or otherwise making use of it. It arises in this case if and insofar as Mr
    Turner received privileged information in confidence and then disclosed it to
    representatives of the claimants, if and insofar as Powerhouse has disclosed documents
    which contain unwaived privileged material. It is accepted by both sides that this material
    contains some Level 3 documents, though they do not always entirely agree as to which
    pieces of evidence fall into that category.
24. There is not much disagreement between the parties as to the principles applicable in this
    area, although there is serious disagreement as to how they should be applied. It is
    sufficient for these purposes to refer to only two authorities. The first is Goddard v
    Nationwide Building Society [1987] Q.B. 670. In that case the Court of Appeal was asked
    to consider whether or not to restrain the use of a note, containing privileged information,
    which a solicitor, who had at one stage been acting for both the plaintiff and defendant,
    had passed to the defendant. Privilege in the material contained in the note was held to
    belong to the Plaintiff. Having determined that, the Court of Appeal granted relief
    restraining use of the material contained in that note, which relief included striking out
    allegations in the pleading which were based on that note, an injunction restraining the
    Defendant from relying upon the note and orders for delivery up of all copies. In his
    leading judgment May L.J. considered the case of Lord Ashburton v Pape [1913] 2 Ch.
    469 and another authority, and pronounced the following proposition (at page 683):

   "If a litigant has in his possession copies of documents to which legal professional
   privilege attaches he may nevertheless use such copies as secondary evidence in his
   litigation: however, if he has not yet used the documents in that way, the mere fact that he
   intends to do so is no answer to a claim against him by the person in whom the privilege
   is vested for delivery up of the copies or to restrain them from disclosing or making any
   use of any information contained in them."

   His citation of authority indicates, I think, that he considered that he would normally
   expect the restraint to be ordered. That last point is rather clearer in the judgment or
   Nourse L.J. He made the following points, relevant to this application:
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 16 of 30



   "The crucial point is that the party who desires the protection must seek it before the
   other party has adduced the confidential communication in evidence or otherwise relied
   on it at trial.

   "… Although the equitable jurisdiction [that is to say, the jurisdiction to restrain the
   misuse of confidential information] is of much wider application, I have little doubt that
   it can prevail over the rule of evidence [viz the rule of evidence which allows secondary
   evidence to be given of primary material where the latter is privileged] only in cases
   where privilege can be claimed …

   "Once it is established that a case is governed by Lord Ashburton v Pape, there is no
   discretion in the court to refuse to exercise the equitable jurisdiction according to its view
   of materiality of the communication, the justice of admitting or excluding it or the like.
   The injunction is granted in aid of privilege which, unless and until it is waived, is
   absolute. In saying this I do not intend to suggest that there may not be cases where an
   injunction can properly be refused on general principles affecting the grant of a discretion
   remedy, for example on the ground of inordinate delay."

25. From this it is clear that not only does the court have jurisdiction to grant appropriate
    relief to prevent reliance upon privileged material where privilege has not been waived,
    the starting point is that one would expect that relief to be granted. That was certainly the
    view of Lawrence Collins J in the second relevant authority, ISTIL Group Inc. v Zahoor
    [2003] 2 All E.R. 252. At paragraph 91 of that judgment (at page 273) he observed that
    "in such cases the court should 'ordinarily' intervene". The court is "not concerned with
    weighing the materiality of the document and the justice of admitting it". (Paragraph 92).
    He went on to say this:

   "93 Fifth, there is nothing in the authorities which would prevent the application of the
   rule that confidentiality is subject to the public interest. In this context, the emergence of
   the truth is not of itself of sufficient public interest. The reason why the balancing
   exercise is not appropriate is because the balance between privilege and truth has already
   been struck in favour of the former by the establishment of the rules concerning legal
   professional privilege.



   "94 Sixth, other public interest factors may still apply. So there is no reason in principle
   why the court should not apply the rule that the court will not restrain publication of
   material in relation to misconduct of such a nature that it ought in the public interest to be
   disclosed to others… there is no confidence as to the disclosure of iniquity. But the
   defence of public interest is not limited to iniquity."

   He went on to hold that on the facts of his particular case, the public interest in the proper
   administration of justice meant that equitable relief, which would otherwise be granted to
   preserve the confidentiality in the privilege material, should not be granted. The facts of
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 17 of 30



   that case were very strong. They involved a clear forgery, and the apparent possibility of
   the court actually being misled by the proposed evidence.

26. I therefore approach this point on the footing that the normal starting point would be for
    appropriate relief to be granted to restrain the use of privileged material. So far as I have
    a discretion to do otherwise, it is not to be exercised merely on the footing that if I do not
    exercise it, the truth is more likely to come out. There must be some other factors, such as
    delay, acquiescence or other equitable defences which must be sufficiently strong to
    override the normal, very strong principle, that privileged communications are protected
    from disclosure. I shall consider the application of these principles to the facts of the case
    before me in a separate section of this judgment below.

   The application of the law to the facts

27. It follows from the above that, subject to waiver, communications by the Defendants to
    Powerhouse which contain or refer to the content of legal advice are capable of being
    privileged. This includes Level 3 communications. Whether or not it includes Level 1 and
    Level 2 communications I do not have to decide, because on any footing there has been a
    waiver of such privilege as might otherwise have existed in those references. At the trial
    on liability Mr Mian gave evidence. That evidence included his dealings with Mr Turner
    of Powerhouse. Having referred to the opening stages of the negotiation, when Mr Mian
    was trying to convince Mr Turner that he had an appealing scheme, he then said the
    following:

   "13 Stuart Turner wanted confirmation of a protected trust account. At this stage I sought
   advice from our lawyers and then passed on this advice to Stuart. This was in late
   February 2000. I wish to make it clear that I am not waiving the privilege that attaches
   these communications."

28. Since that is a clear indication both that solicitors were instructed and as to the subject
    matter of the instructions, I do not see how it can conceivably be argued that similar
    references, containing the same information, in documents or otherwise can have
    maintained any privilege if, indeed, it ever had any. To the same effect is the extract from
    the letter from Mr de Freitas, which I have quoted from above. I expect that both those
    references occurred because it never occurred to the Defendant that, in the context of this
    case, the fact that legal advice was obtained on this transaction was, in itself, in the least
    bit confidential. If that were right then it would mean that documents containing a
    reference to such limited matters would not have the necessary confidentiality to attract
    privilege in the first place, and my first instinct is that such references would not in any
    event, as a matter of principle, be privileged. However, as I have indicated above, I do
    not need to decide that in this case. I can and do deal with the point as a matter of waiver.
    In fairness to Mr Monson, I should record that he did not press privilege in relation to
    these matters particularly strongly. His main concern was that leaving them in the
    documents might amount to a waiver.
29. That leaves the level 3 communications. These are communications which somehow
    reveal the content of the advice that was obtained. Despite the fact this was contained in
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 18 of 30



    communications with a third party (Powerhouse), on the reasoning set out above, and
    unless waived, that privilege can be maintained. The question therefore arises whether or
    not there was a waiver when the material was conveyed to Powerhouse, and in particular
    to Mr Turner. The Gotha City case demonstrates that privileged matters can be conveyed
    to a third party in circumstances which limit the extent of the waiver. I consider that that
    was the case here. I have already set out the terms of the confidentiality agreement which
    operated between the Defendants and Powerhouse. Mr Watson submitted that it did not
    apply to legal advice, but only to such matters as know-how and trade secrets. I do not
    think that that submission is right. The expression "Confidential Information" is not
    defined in the agreement – the wording says what the expression includes but not what it
    means. That being the case, I have to consider what the expression actually does mean,
    particularly in its context. The very use of the word "confidential" connotes information
    with a degree of confidentiality, and it seems to me that legal advice is something that is
    likely to fall fairly and squarely within that concept. On 16th September 2003 Mr Turner
    signed a witness statement in which he conceded that the Defendants had asked him to
    keep the actual advice received from the lawyers, and forwarded to him, confidential.
    Indeed, confidentiality in the actual advice is in effect conceded by Mr Watson, although
    not in terms, when he concedes that he is not entitled to see the verbatim version of the
    advice which was forwarded to Powerhouse. In his witness statement Mr Turner states
    that he did not consider that more general statements as to the nature or the effect of the
    advice (the nature of which I had seen in some of the material that I am invited to strike
    out of witness statements) was confidential, but in my view he is wrong about that. It
    follows, then, that the advice retained its privileged character and any waiver of privilege
    was limited to Powerhouse, and the use to which it could be put was limited by the terms
    of the confidentiality agreement. The terms of that agreement permit only a very limited
    use. Accordingly, conveying the lawyers' advice to Mr Turner and Powerhouse, under
    those terms of confidentiality, did not destroy the confidential nature of the advice, and
    therefore any waiver of privilege was limited to Powerhouse and was not general.
30. Those conclusions can be summarised in relation to the redactions which have been made
    in the Defendants' disclosed documents is as follows:

   (a) References to the mere obtaining of legal advice are not privileged.

   (b) References to the obtaining of legal advice on a given subject matter are not
   privileged.

   (c) Level 3 references, which evidence the content of that advice, are prima facie
   privileged.

31. I add one small point which arises in another context in this case and which may or may
    not arise in relation to the redacted material. The Defendants have shown some sensitivity
    as to the identification of the lawyers concerned. Some of the documents which I have to
    come on to consider later on in this judgment actually identify the Manx lawyers. In the
    light of the conclusion that I have come to in relation to Levels 1 and 2, I do not think
    that the identity of the lawyers involved is capable of attracting privilege either.
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 19 of 30



32. That brings me to the material which the Defendants wish to have struck out of the
    documents voluntarily disclosed by Powerhouse, and various witness statements. I will
    take the witness statement material first.
33. Some of the disputed material is no longer in issue in the light of Mr Monson's
    concession that he does not seek to strike out Level 1 and Level 2 material from the
    witness statements. That leaves it for me to consider what to do about what is said to be
    Level 3 material. So far as there is any such reference, this is made in two ways. First,
    there is a witness statement from Mr Turner in which he describes what he obtained from
    the AON Group in the course of the negotiations, which is said to include some Level 3
    material; and second there is some material in witness statements of Mr Borrill and Mr
    Chan in which they reproduce what Mr Turner told them at the time of the negotiations,
    which is itself said to include some Level 3 disclosure. What is said by Mr Monson on
    behalf of the Defendants is that Mr Turner was not entitled to disclose the advice of the
    Manx lawyers to the Plaintiffs' negotiators, and it remained privileged and confidential.
    Privilege has not been waived, and in accordance with the "ordinary course" relief should
    be granted to make sure that that material is not deployed. He has applied in time.
34. To this analysis Mr Watson had a number of ripostes. They were (although not in the
    same order as he advanced them) as follows:
        a. On the facts, Mr Turner was at liberty to disclose what was disclosed to him
            within what was allowed to him by the confidentiality agreement. This
            distinguishes the present case from the other authorities where the disclosee was
            not similarly at liberty. I do not agree with this. Since it was confidential, he was
            not at liberty to disclose it – see above.
        b. The blatant aim of the Defendants in seeking to have parts of the witness
            statements excised and to have the witness barred from giving evidence of the
            excised contents was to hide a wrongdoing, so the discretion of the court should
            not be exercised in favour of the Defendants. Again, I think this begs the question.
            Whether or not there was a wrongdoing at the end of February 2000 is precisely
            the question the court will have to decide on the enquiry. Even in a case where the
            sole evidence of wrongdoing is in a privileged communication, that does not
            justify the court in exercising its discretion against the invocation of the privilege.
            By and large, a party can only prove what he or she can prove without the aid of
            the other side's privileged material.
        c. So far as the evidence of the Claimants' own officers is concerned they wish to
            give evidence of material that came into their possession without any wrongdoing
            on their part. That, said Mr Watson, is a reason for not restraining their use of that
            information. However, I do not think that that is a determining, or even a strong,
            factor. The converse may well be true – wrongdoing on the part of the recipient
            may strengthen a claim for relief - but it does not follow that the absence of
            wrongdoing means that an injunction should not be granted. I note that in
            Goddard there was no suggestion that the Defendant was guilty of wrongdoing in
            obtaining the privileged information from the solicitor. The solicitor was, of
            course, technically guilty of breaching the Plaintiff's confidentiality, but by the
            same token, on the facts of this case, so was Mr Turner.
        d. If the Level 3 material, such as it is, were excised from the witness statements of
            Mr Borrill and Mr Chan, then they would not be able to give full and frank
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 20 of 30



      evidence of what had actually happened and what their motivation was. Their
      evidence will be that they received certain information and encouragement from
      Mr Turner and they adjusted their conduct accordingly. If they are not allowed to
      give their full evidence then their evidence will have an air of artificiality about it,
      or even potentially a misleading quality. I am rather more troubled about this.
      They did what they did, and they relied on what they relied on. To prevent them
      from telling the court what they actually relied on in reaching their conclusions as
      to pricing, when that is an issue which lies at that heart of the enquiry as to
      damages, would be a very strong thing. However, I think that the answer to this
      problem may be a practical one. I do not consider that their case will be harmed if
      they are allowed to give evidence (which it seems to me they must be) that they
      relied on what they had been told about the advice given by the Manx lawyers
      without actually identifying precisely what it was that they were told. What lies at
      the heart of the causation question on this part of the enquiry is not the advice
      given by Manx lawyers but whether or not an infringing copy of the CAA had
      been made. That is a different, though related, question. I do not think that the
      proper conduct of the enquiry will be effected if the evidence were limited in that
      way; it is not necessary for them to go further and state what the advice was, and
      on my findings they are not entitled to anyway. It not infrequently happens in a
      trial that a witness states that "as a result of the legal advice received, I did X",
      and it is well understood that in those circumstances the witness does not have to
      give evidence of what the advice was. This is therefore not a reason for departing
      from the normal course. On the facts of this particular case, if the Defendants
      were in fact to challenge that sort of evidence as to causation, then they might
      well risk the fact that the witness would be able to justify the statement by
      amplifying what he had understood the advice received by the Defendants to have
      been, but that is a risk for the Defendants to assess, and whether or not the matter
      is opened up would be a matter for the Master at the enquiry.
   e. Next Mr Watson submitted that since privilege was waived vis-à-vis Mr Turner,
      even if it was not waived vis-à-vis the rest of the world, Mr Turner was free to use
      the rest of the information disclosed to him in legal proceedings. I am not sure
      that Mr Watson was prepared to press this submission very strongly, but in any
      event it is wrong. The use to which Mr Turner was entitled to put the privileged
      material was governed by the Confidentiality Agreement, and, as the extracts set
      out above demonstrate, that use was strictly limited. It did not include disclosing
      legal advice to competitors, whether for use as a bargaining counter or not.
   f. Next, Mr Watson said that in effect the material had been deployed, so it was too
      late to be prevent its further deployment – see Goddard. The privileged material
      had already been deployed because of the Chan e-mail referred to above, so the
      defendants are too late. Since this email was part of the documentation at the trial,
      and should be taken to have been read by the trial judge (even though no one says
      that it played any material part in the trial), the matter has already been given a
      form of publicity which means it has been deployed, so it is too late to prevent
      evidence of other disclosures of the same sort of material. Related to this is a
      laches point. He says that the fact that Mr Turner had made disclosures of the
      advice given would have been apparent to the Defendants on disclosure in the
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 21 of 30



           main action, which took place on 24th August 2001 when the defendants would
           have seen the Chan e-mail. Its wording, it will be remembered, contained the
           following paragraph.

   "The solution promoted to you by AON and their advisors is that a Collections Account
   Agreement [sic] in the form of a trust will attain this and that therefore they will have
   demonstrated the robustness required of them. You are now seeking counsels advice on
   the proposed trust."

   This, says Mr Watson, should have alerted the Defendants to the fact that the Claimants
   had found out that legal advice had been obtained on the Defendants proposed
   transactions, and I infer that Mr Watson would say that they should have inferred that Mr
   Turner was the source of this information. They should therefore have inferred at that
   stage that privilege information had been crossing the divide; and since about two years
   elapsed before the Defendants took any point on the alleged wrongful disclosure of
   privileged information, it was by then too late for them to do so. Mr Monson's response
   to this is that in the context of the claim made at the trial, when there was no suggestion
   that a claim of infringement of copyright was being made as early as the end of February,
   this passage had no great significance. He also said that the oral evidence of Mr Borrill at
   the trial as to the infringement of copyright contained no suggestion that the relevant date
   was being put as early as this. Since the email did not actually figure at the trial, and even
   though it was in trial bundles, that did not mean that the whole question of the legal
   advice given at the time had been sufficiently aired in public so as to amount to
   deployment of the material and so as to make it wrong to restrain its further being aired
   now. Since the point now in issue was not then in play, it is not surprising that the
   significance of this email passage was overlooked, and the fact that it was overlooked
   should now not be held against the Defendants now that the focus of the case had shifted,
   or a little more precisely now that the case had acquired a second point of focus to which
   it had become relevant. In my view Mr Monson is right. I do not think that this single
   sentence, in the circumstances, amounts to deployment of the other material. It does not
   amount to an airing of the other privileged material, so it does not give it a relevant
   degree of publicity to mean that the defendants are now too late. So far as laches is
   concerned, in the light of the absence of any significance of that piece of evidence at the
   trial, and in the light of the fact that the pre-1st March infringement claim only came after
   the trial, I think it would be unfair on the Defendants to say that they are too late because
   the material has been deployed, and that in general laches terms they should have taken
   the point (so far as they have one) any earlier than they did.

35. My conclusion on this point is that, if there is Level 3 material relating to privileged
    matter, then there are no factors of any real weight which would lead me to take anything
    other than the ordinary course which is to exclude such matter. I therefore have to go on
    to consider how much of the material falls into that category. In this context, I shall take
    the various passages which the Defendants say infringe their privilege in turn. Where I
    come to the conclusion that a matter is revealed in breach of privilege, I will not actually
    set out the material.
               i. Borrill Fourth Witness Statement paragraph 25
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 22 of 30



              Two sentences are sought to be excised in order, in effect to prevent Mr
              Borrill giving indirect evidence of material passed to him in breach of
              privilege and in breach of confidence. The first sentence refers to legal
              advice, the firm from which it was obtained, (by inference and in its
              context) the subject matter to which it related, and a very short expression
              summarising the advice it given. The last of those elements is
              objectionable; the first three are not. The sentence as it stands ought to be
              struck out, but I can see no objection to a replacement sentence which
              gives the first three elements and otherwise refers to the advice without
              stating what it was. The second sentence describes how he had got the
              advice ("this advice had been forwarded by LGH to Stuart Turner"). This
              sentence is unobjectionable.

       ii.    Borrill Fourth Witness Statement paragraph 26

              The words objected to are words in which Mr Turner is recorded as having
              passed on to Mr Borrill the view of the Manx lawyers as to the workability
              of the Defendants' proposals. Again, this is material said to come from Mr
              Turner; and again, it was imparted by the latter in breach of his duty of
              confidence by way of infringing the Defendants' privilege. The words as
              they stand ought to be struck out because the court ought not to receive
              evidence of privileged matter obtained in this way.

       iii.   Stuart Turner First Witness Statement paragraph 22

              In this paragraph Mr Turner narrates part of the history of his dealings
              with Mr Mian. The first sentence describes the instruction of the Manx
              lawyers to advise on the Defendants' scheme structure. It is not
              objectionable. The first half of the second sentence refers to the fact that
              on 22nd February he saw the advice provided by those lawyers (Cains).
              That, as it stands, again seems to me to be unobjectionable. It does not
              reveal the contents of that advice. The second half of that sentence
              contains a reference to a document referred to in the advice which it goes
              on to describe it in a certain way. The third sentence contains a further
              description of the document just referred to. There is no statement as to
              what the advice actually was. The paragraph then goes on "I was asked by
              AON to keep the Cains' advice confidential. I told Mr Mian on that day
              that the advice did not really address my particular concerns and that I
              would need to see a copy of [a particular document, just referred to] in
              order to know whether it protected customers' money. He said that he
              would have to clear this with AON and AON Legal, and that he would
              have to delete the existing client names from the document; but subject to
              that he agreed to provide a copy." The last sentences that I have quoted do
              not disclose the advice, and this part of the evidence does not contravene
              Mr Turner's obligation of confidentiality apart from the implicit cross-
              reference back. They are unobjectionable, apart from that. The
Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 23 of 30



              immediately preceding elements, which I have not yet dealt with, present a
              little more difficulty. One could argue that where a third party, who is
              within the privilege, merely mentions the fact that a privileged
              communication refers to a given document is not an infringement of
              privilege because it is not disclosing information which tends to indicate
              what the advice was. However, I do not think that is right. The question is
              whether a communication is privileged. To the extent that it is, production
              or proof of it cannot be compelled or allowed. It is not appropriate to
              dissect very small elements out of it and say that disclosure of small
              elements is not an infringement of privilege. It is either privileged or not,
              and if it is it is wrong to allow Mr Turner to give evidence of its content.
              In any event, in relation to the references in this particular case, it could be
              argued that what Mr Turner says might reveal what instructions were
              given to the lawyers, and those instructions are as privileged as the advice.
              Accordingly, I consider that Mr Turner is not entitled to refer to, and give
              evidence of, the content of this advice so far as it contains a description of
              a document referred to within it. Those parts of paragraph 22 will have to
              be struck out. The remaining sentences will have to be modified so that
              they do not cross-refer to a document referred to in privileged advice. He
              would be entitled to give evidence that he asked for a copy of a document,
              but not in such a way to suggest that the advice referred to it. I accept that
              this tends to have an air of unreality or artificiality about it, but that is the
              position at which one sometimes arrives when a witness is required to
              skate delicately around the edge of privileged communications.

        iv.   Turner First Witness Statement paragraph 23 – last sentence

              In this sentence, Mr Turner refers to the fact of receiving further advice
              from Cains via Mr Mian, and goes on to indicate something that it
              mentions. The first part of that sentence is permissible; the second part is
              not because it reveals an element of a privileged communications.

         v.   Turner First Witness Statement paragraph 25

              This contains a statement which is quite clearly a Level 2 Statement. Mr
              Monson does not pursue the excision of this sentence, and in any event I
              would not have required its removal.

        vi.   Chan Second Witness Statement paragraph 5

This paragraph seeks to give evidence of a conversation that he had with Mr Turner
during the negotiations. The objected to part reads:

"However, he [i.e. Mr Turner] told me on the phone that AON and their advisors, Cains,
had nonetheless demonstrated that their scheme was sufficiently robust for the purposes
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 24 of 30



   of Powerhouse, by describing how their collections account agreement would ring fence
   customer monies in the scheme."

   I am not prepared to order the excision of this part of the witness statement. It would be
   unobjectionable without the words "and their advisors, Cains", but it would also have a
   slight air of falsity about it if Mr Turner in fact referred to them. I do not consider that a
   reference such as that contravenes privilege in any particular communication by revealing
   its content.



36. Next I have to deal with Mr Monson's claim that I should order the redaction of certain
    parts of two documents emanating from Powerhouse. The first is a memo from Mr
    Turner to Mr Broomfield and Mr Stanley, two of his colleagues in Powerhouse. It refers
    to the competing bids, and compares various aspects of them. Under the heading "AON"
    it contains first an innocuous sentence stating that the concern that Powerhouse had was
    to ring fence service fees and that that concern has yet to be satisfactorily resolved. There
    is then a sentence which states what the "initial indications" from Cains are. That
    sentence seems to summarise the advice of that firm, and as such it contains a reference
    to privileged information and ought to be redacted. The second sentence is equivocal in
    that it refers to a suggestion which might or might not have been contained in Cains
    advice. Mr Monson tells me on instructions that he and Mr de Frietas have checked
    whether or not it does reflect advice, and he tells me that it does. On that footing, it falls
    to be redacted as does the first sentence. The document then goes on, in a separate
    paragraph, to state as follows:

   "We need to take into account that no precedent (as at the date of this memo) has been set
   in law, and therefore no proof exists to prove that the trust solution presented to
   Powerhouse by AON would have any legal weight. It would seem only wise to secure
   further independent legal advice."

37. I do not see how a case can be made for excising this material and in the end Mr Monson
    did not press for the redaction.
38. The second Powerhouse document is an undated document which was generated
    internally so that someone could consider the various proposals that were before it. On
    page 2, under the heading "The Issue" it contains wording that is identical to that which I
    have just considered. That wording should be treated similarly. There is one additional
    sentence under the heading "The Question", and it reads as follows:

   "Powerhouse have read the Cains response (attached) with some interest but are
   concerned that they seem to have "skated around" the core issue for Powerhouse."

   The Cains response referred to is not disclosed. This sentence is objected to, but I cannot
   really see why. It certainly does not contain any evidence of what the Cains advice was.
   There is nothing objectionable about it.
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 25 of 30



39. The last document is the Chan email that I have referred to above. I am not prepared to
    order the excision of this part of the evidence. It is no more objectionable than paragraph
    5 of his witness statement, which I have already declined to excise.
40. Next I turn to the particulars of claim in the enquiry. Mr Monson says I should strike out
    certain allegations made in the Particulars of Claim because they were only able to be
    made because of unauthorised disclosure by Mr Turner. In effect, he invites me to take
    the same approach in relation to this statement of case as the Court of Appeal took to the
    relevant pleading in the Goddard case. Some of the objected to parts correspond to parts
    of witness statements which I have allowed to stand in that they refer merely to the
    receipt and transmission of legal advice. However, two sentences go further and refer to
    the content of legal advice, in a similar manner to parts of Mr Turner's witness statement
    which I have ordered should be excised. I was at first tempted to accede to Mr Monson's
    application to strike out at least those limited parts. However, I have decided I should not
    do so. Now that the position as to admissible evidence has (I hope) become clearer as a
    result of this judgment, Mr Watson may well wish to reconsider how he is going to make
    his case, since part of his submissions to me involve assertions that he could get to where
    he wanted through different routes in any event. If he is right about that then he may wish
    to consider re-pleading. I do not think it is necessary, in that context, for me to start
    striking out parts of the existing statement of case. If Mr Watson has no other way of
    getting to where he wants apart from relying on evidence that I have required to be
    removed, then he will not be able to make good the allegations in the Particulars of
    Claim. No harm is done by leaving them in. If he thinks he can get there through another
    route, then he should be at liberty to do so. It may be that in fact he may wish to
    reconsider how he puts his case and remove or amend certain parts of the present claim.
    That is obviously a matter for him. At the moment I think the most sensible course is to
    leave the particulars of claim where they are.

   Apollo Transaction

41. In his judgment on the trial of liability, Judge Weeks Q.C. observed:

   "I suspect that in the morass of documents the parties may have lost sight of their
   commercial interests and the purpose of litigation".



42. In some ways I cannot help sharing that view in relation to this section of the application
    before me. I find it difficult to see that the events to which I now have to refer can give
    rise to any particular material claim, and I cannot help thinking that what I shall call the
    Apollo claim is a storm in a teacup, and Mr Watson at one stage was disposed to accept
    that that was an accurate description of at least part of the dispute in relation to this
    matter. However, it is a matter which is raised in the enquiry as to damages, and there has
    been no attempt to strike it out on the basis that it is frivolous or otherwise that it should
    not be dealt with, so I am forced to deal with it.
43. In 1999 the AON Group entered into a warranty support scheme with a concern that can
    be described as Apollo. It is common ground that this scheme was not a trust-based
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 26 of 30



    scheme so documents of the nature of the CAA played no part in it in its final form.
    Furthermore, there is no suggestion that the Claimants were in competition with the
    Defendants for that scheme, so there is no suggestion that they have suffered direct
    financial loss because the Defendants got the contract. However, the allegation is that in
    the course of considering the Apollo transaction, consideration was given at some stage
    to a trust-based scheme to which the CAA would have been appropriate, and that in that
    context there was some copying of the Scottish Power CAA or otherwise some
    infringement of the claimants' rights in respect to it. There is evidence for supposing that
    the CAA was considered in the context of the Apollo scheme, because the infringing
    copy forwarded to Powerhouse had originally been saved on the Defendants' computer
    systems under a file name whose path included something which appears to be a
    directory designated to "Apollo 2000". The case of the claimants, as described to me by
    Mr Watson, was that if there was some copying in this context, even if (as seems clearly
    to be the case) the copies were in no way deployed in the actual Apollo Scheme, the
    Defendants are liable to pay a payment in the nature of a royalty. They therefore seek
    disclosure of all drafts of the CAA prepared for the purpose of the Apollo transactions,
    and they also seek all memoranda and similar notes referring to any such documents.
44. The disclosure sought by the Claimants is in terms as follows:

   "All drafts of the collections account agreement or equivalent agreement (in both
   electronic and hard copy form) which have been prepared, used or intended to be used by
   the Defendants or any of them for the purposes of putting into effect the warranty scheme
   for:

   [Apollo];

   Any other Retailer

   All memoranda, attendance notes, board minutes and correspondence (including emails)
   which refer to any document referred to in [the preceding paragraph] (including internal
   documents prepared by the Defendants' and documents passing between any two or more
   the Defendants)."

45. Mr Monson accepted that his clients were under an obligation to disclose documents
    relating to the use of the CAA in Apollo but said that they have already been disclosed
    (and the Claimants have been given copies,) apart from such privileged documents as
    may exist. I should say at this stage that in case there is any daylight between Mr
    Monson's concession and formulation of the category of documents sought by the
    Claimants, I would make an order in those terms, but I do not think that there would be
    much debate about that. The debate in this area centred around the question of privilege.
    Paragraph 17 of the particulars of claim in the enquiry states that:

   "It is to be inferred from [certain pleaded material] that the first and/or second Defendant
   also copied the CAA for the purpose of sending it and/or sent it to Apollo 2000."
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 27 of 30



46. It does not appear that a copy of any document specifically created at this stage has been
    disclosed, whether as a document that the defendants have in their possession or as a
    document which they once had. Mr Watson seeks to make a case that CAA must at some
    stage have been copied for the purpose of considering whether or not to deploy it in a
    scheme for Apollo, even if it never was so used, and even if a copy was never sent to
    Apollo, and the suggestion is that such a document was, or may have been, sent to the
    defendants solicitors. The debate before me was principally about privilege. Various
    documents were debated, each of them hypothetical - they were hypothetical because the
    Defendants deliberately said nothing about the existence or non-existence of such
    documents because if they had then they would or might be admitting that which they
    claim they were entitled to decline to admit (because of privilege), and I suspect they
    were also concerned about waiver of privilege. Those documents were as follows:
                i. Copies of the CAA prepared for the purposes of being submitted to
                      solicitors for their consideration.
               ii. Any amended CAA arising as a result of work by the solicitors.
              iii. Versions of the CAA thus amended and put back in the hands of the
                      Defendants or any of them.
47. Mr Watson's final position in argument was that such documents could not be privileged.
    Those described under (i) would simply be copies of an unprivileged document, and
    would not be privileged because of the Three Rivers case. Next he said that documents in
    category (ii) would not be privileged because once the to-ing and fro-ing on advice had
    been concluded it no longer formed part of the advice. So far as the drafts back in the
    hands of the clients were concerned (category (iii), then they were not privileged either
    because they fell within category (ii) or because the disclosure of a later draft to
    Powerhouse waived privilege in the predecessor draft on which it was apparently based.
    As an alternative line of attack in relation to this alleged batch of infringements, Mr
    Watson also relied on the principle that "advice sought or given for the purpose of
    effecting iniquity is not privileged" Barclays Bank Plc –v- Eustice [1995] 1 WLR 1238 at
    1249b. The iniquity relied on by him was giving a lawyer a draft, in respect of which
    copyright existed, for the lawyer to improve.
48. I think that it is appropriate to deal with this part of the case shortly. It is tempting to take
    the view that since it was not clearly proved that there were any documents which are
    worth debating (because of the position taken by Mr Monson) I should not deal with this
    at all. However, it has been a matter of some dispute between the parties, and I think that
    it would be useful and proper for me to make some rulings for the guidance of the parties,
    and in particular for the guidance of the defendants who can be seen to have taken a line
    in relation to privilege that was not justified (see their insistence on redacting level 1 and
    level 2 references, above). However, I shall not deal with the point at great length
    because I think that the answers are relatively straightforward and, because I find it very
    hard to believe that any significant amount of damages can turn on them. I consider the
    legal position to be as follows:
         a. Any copy of the CAA which was created with a view to its being submitted to
             solicitors for advice does not, despite its purpose, attract privilege. That this is
             clearly the case appears from Dubai Bank Limited v Galadari [1990] Ch 1980.
             This principle was recently applied and approved in Sumitomo Corporation v
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 28 of 30



          Credit Lyonnais Rouse Limited [2002] 1 WLR 479. Any such copy ought
          therefore to be disclosed and produced.
       b. Any version produced by the solicitor in draft for the purpose of carrying out his
          function of giving legal advice to a client would, in my view, be privileged. Such
          drafts, until communicated, are not communications, but it is quite apparent from
          paragraph 29 of the judgment of Longmore L.J. in the Three Rivers case that that
          judge considered that solicitors' drafts are privileged – "all documents passing
          between the BIU and Freshfield are privileged as, indeed, are Freshfields' own
          drafts and memoranda." (my emphasis).
       c. Drafts passed back to the clients, on the assumption that they were part and parcel
          of legal advice, are again privileged. I do not understand on what principle it can
          be said that privilege in those drafts is waived when a yet further draft, which is
          derived from them, is disclosed in circumstances such that that later draft is not
          privileged. Mr Watson advanced no authority in support of his proposition that
          privilege was waived, and I hold that it was not.
       d. There is no evidential basis upon which the iniquity principle can be invoked in
          this case. While I accept Mr Watson's submission that dishonesty as such is not
          necessary in order to invoke the principle, and reject Mr Monson's submission
          that it is, there is no evidence on which I can find that the Defendants were guilty
          of any conduct which even comes close to the level of iniquity which is required
          in order to bar the privilege that would otherwise cloak the communications
          between solicitor and client. Since there is no evidence at all that solicitors were
          involved, but merely supposition, that is not surprising. However, even if one
          were minded to suppose that solicitors were instructed, there is nothing in this
          case to suggest that the Defendants were anything other than innocent in what
          they did. Indeed, in the trial on liability HH Judge Weeks Q.C. expressly rejected
          a finding that the later breach of copyright was flagrant. He had that issue before
          him in the context of an assertion that the Powerhouse breach was flagrant within
          the meaning of Section 97 (2) of the Copyright, Design and Patents Act 1988. He
          held that it was not. In that instance the person who authorised the release to
          Powerhouse (Mr Witt) could be identified, as could the circumstances in which it
          happened. He is said to have been honest and mistaken in believing that he was
          entitled to release it. I have not been given evidence to suggest that any other
          servant or officer of the Defendants held any more iniquitous view. I therefore
          reject the submission that the iniquity principle operated so as to deprive the
          Defendants of any privilege which might have arisen in respect of the putative
          instructions to solicitors.

   Issues Relating to Statements of Case

49. The applications before me include an application that the Defendants be ordered to
    provide some further information in relation to their pleaded case. However, it was
    agreed that I need not deal with that, and accordingly I do not do so. There is also an
    application by the Claimants to amend their particulars of claim in the enquiry. That was
    resisted on the grounds that those amendments introduced some inconsistencies. I believe
    that most of those points, if not all of them, were ironed out, but the fate of this
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 29 of 30



   application was, so far as I can see, a little lost in the detailed debate on the other, more
   substantial, issues that arose before me. As I understand it, at present there is no longer
   any opposition to these amendments, and if that is right then I shall allow them so far as I
   need to do so. If I am wrong about that, then I shall entertain such debate as may be
   necessary in order to resolve outstanding points.

   One Relevance Point

50. The documents produced by the Defendants in respect of which redactions in whole or in
    part were made were comprised in a further list produced by the Defendants. There were
    15 of them. It has not been necessary for me to describe those documents in detail in this
    judgment.; I have described their nature in general terms. One special point arises in
    relation to the 15th document, which is the last chronological document. It is described as
    a "copy letter from the first Defendant to Powerhouse Retail Limited" dated 10th April
    2000. this is after the date when the effective deal was done between Powerhouse and the
    claimants, and therefore after the second price reduction which underpins the claim for
    damages. The Defendants objected to the production of the whole of this document – it
    was not a question of merely redacting part – and the original basis of objection was
    privilege. During the course of the hearing, Mr Monson told me that on further reflection
    this document was irrelevant as well, since it did not go to the issues in the inquiry, and
    he sought to resist inspection on that ground too. The parties agreed that rather than have
    an extended debate, or even a short debate, on the appropriate course to be adopted in
    those changed circumstances, the convenient course would be for me to look at the
    document and express my view as to whether it was indeed irrelevant and need not be
    produced. Mr Watson in terms agreed to that course. I have looked at that document and
    read it carefully. Having done so, I am satisfied that Mr Monson is right – while related
    to the overall situation, it is of no relevance (in the disclosure sense) to the issues to be
    debated in the enquiry. I also record that it does contain privileged material, though in my
    view (which does not matter for these purposes in the light of my conclusion on
    relevance) only part of the content is privileged. I therefore will make no disclosure order
    in relation to that document.

   Judicial inspection of other documents

51. I should also record one further thing in relation to the disputed documents. The debate as
    to what redactions should be made to witness statements and the documents emanating
    from Powerhouse took place with the benefit of both parties and my knowing what words
    in question were. That was not the case in respect of the documents which the Defendants
    have themselves redacted. It was at one stage suggested that I should look at all those
    documents (including document 15 to which I have referred) so that I could express a
    view as to whether they were or were not in fact privileged. That suggestion was not
    actively pursued, and the debate took place with only the Defendants knowing what was
    in the allegedly privileged material, as is common in these situations. Nevertheless during
    the course of the hearing, I was provided with a bundle which had unredacted versions of
    all those documents. The provisional view which I reached was that it would not be
    necessary for me to consider the content of those documents if I were able to lay down,
   Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 57-2 Filed 03/14/16 Page 30 of 30



    with sufficient clarify, the principles with which should be applied in deciding whether
    those documents were privileged. Having come to the conclusions which I have set out in
    this judgment, I maintain that view. The parties agreed that I should retain the unredacted
    bundle in my possession whilst writing this judgment, so that if I thought it necessary or
    useful to refer to it I should be at liberty to do so. The position is that I consider that I
    have been able to lay down sufficient principles to enable Mr Monson and his instructing
    solicitors to do their job of ascertaining which parts of the relevant documents are
    privileged, and it is neither necessary nor appropriate for me to substitute my judgment
    for theirs in the circumstances now obtaining. Accordingly, with the exception of
    document 15 which I have referred to above, I have not looked at any of those
    documents.

    The Requirement for a New List

52. The Claimants have applied for an order that the Defendants should provide a further list
    of documents relevant to the inquiry. The Defendants have resisted this suggestion on the
    basis that there are no additional documents requiring disclosure beyond those that they
    have specifically listed for the purposes of the privilege claim, and beyond those which
    were already comprised within a list, or lists in the context of the trial on liability. Mr
    Watson countered this by saying it was still appropriate that a proper list should be
    supplied, not least because the Defendants ought to particularise what searches they have
    made. I am quite clear that the Defendants ought to provide a list. At the end of the trial
    on liability, HH Judge Weeks Q.C made an order providing for the enquiry, and
    paragraph 9 of that Order provides for the parties to give standard disclosure by a date in
    May 2003. Standard disclosure requires for the production of a list. I cannot see why the
    Defendants should not provide one, even if all it did was to relist documents already
    supplied, or even annex the old list. At the same time they could and should have given
    such statements as to searches made as were appropriate in the circumstances. That
    would have been very much easier and more cost effective than bringing the matter
    before me (albeit that the time in debate was short), and it and might well have done
    something to allay the suspicion that the Claimants clearly feel in relation to this matter.
    Declining to supply a list is only likely to fuel suspicion, not to allay it. Of course, were it
    the case that a further list were not being provided because the Defendants did not wish to
    say something that would have to be said in connection with such a list (as to which there
    is no evidence) then that would be all the more reason for their providing one; if it is not
    the case then dealing with the situation would be extremely simple. Either way, the
    Defendants should provide the list sought by the Claimants.

    Conclusions

53. I shall therefore make such orders as are appropriate in the light of the findings I have
    made in this judgment. The parties will doubtless want to consider that point and decide
    what is technically the best way of going about the matter. In the case of any dispute, I
    shall rule further.
